
Académie Royale des Sciences ET AL.
Region: WEOG
Country: Belgium
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Rigour and caution
A. RIGOUR
A researcher’s work is deemed to be rigorous when he/she applies
the generally acknowledged rules of his/her discipline
with precision.
1 The researcher acts in a precise and nuanced manner when
carrying out research and publishing its results. The obligation
to obtain results should not interfere with this principle.
2 Researchers must conceive and undertake their protocols as
precisely as possible. In their research work, researchers must
take into account the latest state of the art in their domain.
They must obtain the necessary skills beforehand in terms of
knowledge and mastery of the techniques, while developing
a critical mind. Assignments for which they are not qualified
or that can be reasonably considered as impossible to execute
must be refused.
3. The researcher must check whether the tools he/she intends
to use (for instance, laboratory equipment, measuring material,
standard questionnaires) are adapted to the work to be undertaken
and ready to be used in optimum technical conditions.
CODE D’ÉTHIQUE DE LA RECHERCHE SCIENTIFIQUE EN BELGIQUE 5
4. The person in charge of the research must exercise sufficient
control over the implementation of the research by his/her
team members. The responsibilities pertaining to this research
must be clearly defined and always respected.
5. In media communications or presentations, the researcher must
present his/her research results in a truthful and comprehensible
way. He/she must avoid arousing unjustified fears or hopes.
6. A researcher assumes his/her responsibilities as regards the
development of his/her discipline and, consequently, commits
oneself to participate in peer review.
B. CAUTION
A researcher’s behaviour is deemed to be cautious when he/she
acts with foresight and precaution and is guided by the concern
to avoid harm to anyone else.
1. Although the researcher’s primary concern is to acquire or
increase his/her knowledge, caution requires him/her not to
impose unnecessary or disproportionate risks. A careful analysis of the advantages but also of the short- and
mid-term risks of a research project must be done and, in case
of a risk for third parties, must be submitted to a peer review
(or, if necessary, the ethics committee if it exists).
2. The researcher must show respect for the subjects/respondents
of experiments, investigations and surveys, all the more so
if the subjects are in a vulnerable position. The subjects of experiments
and respondents must give their informed consent:
they have the right to know they are the subject of research,
they must be given the most complete information possible
and give their prior consent with full knowledge of the facts.
Any deviation from this principle must be submitted for approval
of the persons or the institutions qualified to provide an
opinion on both the scientific aspects and the ethical aspects
of the matter (ethics committee, programme monitoring committee,
academic authorities, etc.).
3. Animals used in experiments must be treated with care by
minimizing the number used and their suffering, according to
the three R’s (reduction, replacement, refinement).
4. As regards experiments with a potential impact on the environment,
the investigator must take into account the principle
of precaution.
5. In the case of projects abroad, the researchers must apply
the present code while also taking into account any existing
codes and rules in force in the countries concerned. Within this
context, respect for local culture and environment is of utmost
importance. This concern will be even greater in cases where
local rules and codes of ethics are absent or are not applied.
6. Responsibility must be taken for any errors or omissions
made, as well as any resulting damage to third parties, and
maximal compensation should be pursued.
CODE D’ÉTHIQUE DE LA RECHERCHE SCIENTIFIQUE EN BELGIQUE 
Reliability and verifiability
A. RELIABILITY
Researchers are deemed to be reliable when they act in such a
way that third parties can trust them to proceed in a professional
manner, both in their scientific work and in their manner
of reporting on it.
1. Researchers will endeavour to present their expertise, work
and results as accurately as possible and will, in all cases,
avoid creating a misleading or overrated idea of their work
among their sponsors and colleagues, the press or any other
third party.
2. Data arising from observations, experiments or existing
literature should not be invented nor falsified. Researchers
should not give the impression that empirical data is available
if this is not the case. Sampling, analysis techniques
and statistical methods should not be chosen or manipulated
with a view to obtaining or justifying a result defined in
advance.
3. The research results must appear in full in publications,
and unwanted results must not be selectively omitted. Results
which do not correspond to the stipulated hypotheses must
always be mentioned in the publication of the research results.
The level of uncertainty and the limits of the results must appear
clearly in the publications, presentations and reports.
4. In their reports and communications, researchers must establish
a clear distinction between the research results and the
conclusions on the one hand, and hypotheses and speculations
on the other.
5. The general principles in terms of intellectual property must
be respected. Researchers may not present fieldwork, data and
results obtained by other researchers as their own; they must
not plagiarise other people’s publications. People who have
collaborated on a research project must be correctly cited; only
those who have actually contributed to the research may be
mentioned as (co-)authors.
6. Colleagues’ and researchers’ beliefs must be respected; their
ideas must not be wrongfully appropriated. This is especially
valid in the case of new themes in research, theories or technologies
that are still in the development stage.
7. Researchers must not simultaneously publish the same test
in several international scientific journals with peer reviewed.
Neither should they submit the same text at the same time to
several journals for evaluation.
CODE D’ÉTHIQUE DE LA RECHERCHE SCIENTIFIQUE EN BELGIQUE 
B. VERIFIABILITY
Researchers’ work is deemed to be verifiable when it allows colleagues
to follow the progress of the research and to reproduce
it, if need be.
1. The information given should be verifiable. The results of
the literature study, the hypotheses, the organisation of the
research, the research and analysis methods, as well as the
sources, are described in detail (in a research logbook, a laboratory
diary or a progress report) so that other researchers
can verify the accuracy of the process and reproduce it. If the
subject of the observation is destroyed (for instance, during
excavations), these observations must be recorded as well as
possible. All the agreements and decisions must be written
down and saved.
2. The publication of results is at the basis of the evaluation by
peers. The results from a research project should be published
and/or made accessible to other researchers as soon as possible.
In some cases, agreements may be established concerning
publication times.
3. The primary data of a research project and the protocols
must be kept and made accessible during a determined and
sufficient period of time. When publications, especially review
and summary articles, do not contain all the necessary data for
verification, the data should nevertheless be available.
CODE D’ÉTHIQUE DE LA RECHERCHE SCIENTIFIQUE EN BELGIQUE 
Independence and impartiality
A. INDEPENDENCE
In their scientific activities, researchers are guided by rules of a
scientific nature, which are a condition of their independence.
1. Researchers must be able to carry out their research in complete
freedom and independence since their creativity depends
on it.
2. Commissioned scientific research is carried out without
interventions from the sponsor during the execution of the
scientific work entrusted to the researcher. The sponsor’s policy
(public or private) is expressed in the choice of research
themes. The researcher does fail his/her independence by accepting
contracts or in responding to calls for proposals within
this context, insofar as he/she retains his/her freedom in the
execution of the research, as regards the organisation of the research,
the hypotheses, the methods used and the formulation
of conclusions. A scientific conclusion can only be formulated
on the basis of scientific arguments.
3. Commissioners and external sponsors, as well as their relations
with the researcher, are mentioned in the publications of the
results. The possible links between sponsors and researchers,
such as their expert or advisory role, will also be mentioned.
Any conflicts of interests must be mentioned in scientific
communications and publications.
4. Commissioners institutions must elaborate clear contractual
conventions, as regards, among other things, the freedom of
publication and the ownership of the results. If restrictions on
the freedom of the researcher have to be imposed, this will be
explicitly mentioned.
5. If a project is carried out by a team, the rights and obligations
of the various parties involved must be specified, including the
research institution where the research is being carried out as
well as the bodies that are the source of financing. The agreements
relating to the ownership of results, their use and their
dissemination must be clearly established.
CODE D’ÉTHIQUE DE LA RECHERCHE SCIENTIFIQUE EN BELGIQUE 
B. IMPARTIALITY
Researchers are deemed to be impartial when they do not allow
themselves to be influenced by their preferences, sympathies,
interests or personal prejudices in the execution of their scientific
work.
1. Researchers have a right to their opinions and preferences
(for instance, as regards the economic or societal usefulness of
certain activities) though these should not interfere with their
scientific work.
2. If there is a risk that there could be a conflict or a confusion
of interests, the researcher can only accept to carry out the
research if his/her impartiality will not be jeopardised. His/her
solution to this problem will be explicitly mentioned during the
presentation of the research results.
3. In the publication of the research results, especially the
conclusions and recommendations for application that could
drawn from them, the researcher must make a clear distinction
between his/her scientific judgements and his/her personal
preferences.
4. By participating in peer review, the researcher should
only be guided by considerations of a scientific order.
The confidentiality of the information should be guaranteed.
5. The assessment of manuscripts for scientific journals must
be carried out in an impartial manner and within a reasonable
deadline.
6. Any disagreements with the scientific views of other researchers
will only be discussed on the basis of scientific arguments.
CODE D’ÉTHIQUE DE LA RECHERCHE SCIENTIFIQUE EN BELGIQUE 
Academy of Toxicological Sciences 
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Ethics
Academy of Toxicological Sciences certifies toxicologists who are recognized by their peers for their expertise and sound scientific judgment. The purpose of the recognition and certification is to ensure the competence and experience of professionals whose work affects public welfare.
In attaining this goal, each Fellow must maintain high ethical standards, recognize a duty to share this knowledge with the public and be a thoughtful advocate for human, animal, and environmental health. To this purpose, this code requires a personal commitment. Fellows of the Academy of Toxicological Sciences: Conduct their work and themselves with objectivity and integrity. Hold as inviolate that credible science is fundamental to all toxicologic research and forms the basis for communicating results. Recognize a duty to communicate information concerning health, safety, and toxicity in a timely and responsible manner, with due regard for the significance and credibility of the available data. Give due consideration to the ethical, legal, social and policy implications of their research and communications.
Be a thoughtful advocate for human and environmental health. Abstain from professional judgments influenced by undisclosed conflict of interest, make reasonable efforts to disclose any material conflicts of interest and, insofar as possible, avoid situations that imply a conflict of interest. Observe the spirit, as well as, the letter of law, regulations, and ethical standards with regard to the welfare of humans and animals involved in their experimental procedures. Practice high standards of occupational health and safety for the benefit of themselves, their co-workers, trainees, and other personnel.
Claims that fellows of the Academy of Toxicological Sciences have not adhered to the code in a material way shall be submitted in writing to ATS Headquarters. The ATS legal counsel will review the documentation and make recommendations to the Board. The Board can take action in response to objections only when those objections or comments have been acted upon by adjudicative bodies. In cases where the claims have been substantiated, the Board shall decide upon and undertake appropriate action as it pertains to a prospective fellow and/or a fellow.

Air Liquide
Region: WEOG
Country: France
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Key Principles of Code of Conduct
Our entities implement local employee codes of conduct. These codes of conduct are intended for all the employees of these entities to help them develop their activities while respecting the Group’s ethical principles. In compliance with local uses and regulations, they are based on 10 fundamental themes.

Respect for Laws and Regulations

The Group upholds the highest standards in how it runs its activities, notably by respecting human rights, labor laws and the environment.
In professional activities, each Air Liquide employee must demonstrate integrity and abide by applicable laws and regulations under all circumstances.

Respect for People

Safety and health in the workplace, Prevention of discriminatory actions and Respect for third parties.
Safety and health in the workplace
Safety of employees is one of the Group’s priorities, and efficiency must never be sought to the detriment of safety.
Each employee has the right to work under safe and healthy conditions, and the duty to contribute to them by responsible behavior. Safety policy extends to all employees, subcontractors and service providers. Each employee must exercise their professional activity in abiding by the safety, hygiene and health rules applicable in his or her workplace and participating in appropriate training sessions that might be planned in these areas.

Prevention of discriminatory actions
The Group is determined to offer personnel equal opportunities for recognition and career advancement, whatever their origins, gender, beliefs or physical condition and will not tolerate any form of discrimination, or harassment.

Respect for third parties
Each employee must help respect commitments made with Air Liquide partners, in particular, customers, suppliers and public authorities, and must also demonstrate objectivity and fairness in their treatment.

Respect for the Environment

Respect for the environment and the preservation of natural resources in its operations and those of its customers is a major priority of Air Liquide.
The following, in particular, are prohibited: any agreement or even discussion with competitors concerning price-setting or other transaction conditions, production limitations and the sharing of customers or commercial territories.

It is up to each Air Liquide employee to respect the competition law as violating rules can cause the company, its employees and its shareholders to incur serious risks. The law stipulates penalties that can be very significant for private individuals or extremely damaging to legal entities and may seriously undermine a company’s reputation.
Respect for Competition Law Regulations

Competition law is applicable to every aspect of a company’s commercial activity: negotiations with customers and suppliers, contacts with competitors, marketing and sales promotion.

Respect for Rules on Insider Trading

Any employee with information, if made public, could influence the Stock Exchange price of the Air Liquide share.
The employee must keep this information confidential and must not undertake, or recommend that a third party undertake or have undertaken, any operations on Air Liquide shares. The employee concerned must abide by the measures in the memorandum on the prevention of insider trading issued by the L’Air Liquide S.A. Legal Department.

Prevention for Conflict of Interest

Includes links to a competitor, customer or supplier, respect for rules on corruption, payments, gifts and advantages
Links to a competitor, customer or supplier
Each employee must commit to avoiding any situation that involves a conflict between their personal interests and those of Air Liquide.
For example, a case where an employee may work simultaneously for a customer, supplier or competitor or holds a major interest in these latter, either directly or indirectly. Any employee who could potentially be in a conflict of interest is encouraged to inform his or her immediate supervisor of this situation.

Respect for rules on corruption
It is prohibited to pay for, offer or grant unwarranted advantages, in any form whatsoever, directly or through an intermediary, to a private party or a representative of the public authorities in any country, with the purpose of obtaining favorable treatment or influencing the outcome of a negotiation in which Air Liquide is involved.

Payments, gifts and advantages
No employee may accept from a competitor, customer or supplier of Air Liquide or offer to these latter any illegal/inappropriate payment, or gifts or other types of advantages. An exception can be recognized for gifts or invitations of low value that are not paid in cash and are in keeping with current commercial practices and do not violate any laws or regulations.

Protection of Air Liquide Activities

Each employee must properly protect and maintain confidential any strategic, financial, technical or commercial data or documents that are not public and whose disclosure to third parties could be harmful to the interests of Air Liquide.
Protection of information
Likewise, information concerning a named person, both professional and involving private life, is confidential and must be subject to all the precautions needed to prevent inaccurate or inappropriate modification or disclosure.

The duty to maintain confidentiality also applies to information provided by Air Liquide’s partners and customers. It is up to each Air Liquide employee to respect these rules on the protection of information.

This duty on confidentiality continues even after the departure of an Air Liquide employee.

Protection of property and resources
Each employee is responsible for the proper use and protection of Group property and resources such as intellectual property rights, installations, equipment and financial resources or cash. These resources and property must be used in accordance with their professional purpose and in the established framework.

They may not be used for personal ends except if explicit authorization has been granted by a duly authorized individual in the framework of established procedures.

Lastly, it is the responsibility of each employee to protect the property and resources of the Group against any damage, inappropriate alteration, fraud, loss or theft.

Transparency and Integrity of Information

Air Liquide strives for the greatest transparency and the highest standards of integrity and reliability of the financial, accounting and management information that is treated or communicated.
Each employee who takes part in the production, analysis, filing or communication of this information must carry out these operations honestly and transparently.

Internal Control and Audit

Internal control systems set up within the Group (respect for laws, regulations, policies or procedures, asset protection and reliable financial information) help control its activities, operational efficiency and the efficient use of its resources.
Each Air Liquide employee must contribute to the efficiency of the internal control systems and cooperate with the internal or external audits (that are involved in the evaluation of these systems), especially by showing diligence and transparency in satisfying any requests for information.

Implementation of the Code of Conduct

If there is any doubt about the interpretation or application, in a given situation, of the rules presented in this document.
Each Air Liquide employee has every right to inform his or her immediate supervisor, or his or her unit’s Human Resources Department, or the Air Group Personnel Department or the “Ethics Officer” of the Group about it.

In addition, an employee who has, in good faith, pointed out a breach in the rules pointed out in this document will not be subject to any disciplinary measures.
Air Products
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct 

Commit to integrity:
Code of Conduct
for employees of Air Products and its companies
A guide to Air Products’ expectations for ethical business conduct
For simplicity of language, the Code of Conduct addresses “employees” or “employee” or refers to the collective workforce as “we” or addresses employees as “you.” Groups other than “regular employees” may sometimes be asked, before or during their relationship with Air Products, to read/and or comply with some or all of the Code of Conduct and related policies, standards, guidelines, and processes. Completion of this step by non-regular employee groups, if requested during the course of the business relationship, does not imply employee status, employment, or any employer obligation by Air Products. The term “Air Products” will be used throughout the Code to refer to Air Products and its companies.
Company Compliance
How to File a Report
Employees who have questions or concerns, need advice, or suspect that a Code violation may have occurred should first speak to their immediate supervisor or manager. However, if the situation or questions involve the supervisor or manager, or when an employee prefers to speak to someone
else, he or she should take the matter to the Law Group, the Chief Risk Officer, Corporate Audit, or any company executive.
As employees, in some circumstances we may sometimes feel reluctant or uncomfortable reporting violations or concerns to others within Air Products. Anyone inside or outside the company can make a report, 24 hours per day, seven days per week, using one of several tools available with external, third-party companies contracted by Air Products. Using our IntegrityLine, callers can speak (often in local
language) to vendor representatives who can document concerns and route for follow-up. The IntegrityOnline website is available in numerous languages from any Internet connection. The employees of the third-party vendor are trained to accurately document information you provide. That enables Air Products to investigate all concerns.
Those making reports can choose to remain anonymous (where permitted by local law), but you are encouraged to identify yourself to make follow-up more effective. Withholding your name or detailed information can make it difficult for Air Products to address or resolve issues and concerns. Whether you choose to discuss your concerns by phone or online, you’ll receive a report number to use if you want to follow up. Then the third-party company will forward the report to the appropriate people at Air Products for investigation.
Please note that Data Privacy laws in some countries limit the type/category of report employees can make using the IntegrityLine phone numbers or IntegrityOnline Web page. In some countries, reports can be made only for audit, accounting, fraud and financial irregularities using these tools. Similarly, anonymous reporting is prohibited by law in some countries. In this case, the reporting system will advise you how to proceed.
Reporting Accounting Irregularities
Those who want to report suspected violations related to questionable accounting or auditing matters directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors may do so. Employees can ask that a report made online or by phone be forwarded to the Audit Committee, or the complaint may be mailed directly to the Audit Committee in care of the Corporate Secretary’s Office at
Air Products in Allentown, Pennsylvania (see address information on back cover).
 Code of Conduct Certification Requirements
Periodically, the Chief Risk Officer, Corporate Risk Office, or Audit Department may designate certain employees who will be required to provide a written certification that they have reviewed and understand the Code of Conduct, or portions of it, or related policies, standards, and
guidelines. The certification will confirm that, during the immediately preceding period, the employee complied with the Code of Conduct and that he or she has no personal knowledge of any violation of it by others.
Fairness and Non-retaliation
Fair Dealing
We should all deal fairly with the Company’s customers, suppliers, competitors, and our colleagues. No one should take advantage of people or situations through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other unfair dealing practice.
Visit www.airproducts.com/  integrityline for local reporting numbers
and instructions.
Report online at www.airproducts.com/  integrityonline
Protecting Those Who Help Protect the Company
Our reputation for honesty is a valuable asset. That’s why we promise non- retaliation  for employees who protect it. You should report actual or suspected Code of Conduct or ethics and compliance and governance policy violations. If you feel you are the victim of retaliation because you adhered to the Code of Conduct, questioned unethical business practices, or reported a violation, use one of the reporting tools or resources to report the retaliation immediately. Air Products will not tolerate retaliation against those who uphold the Company’s commitment to integrity.
 Work Environment
and Employment
Diversity and Inclusion
Air Products is sincere in its commitment to build an inclusive working environment where openness, trust, and respect are integral parts
of our global corporate culture. As employees, we must treat each other with respect and value each other’s differences. The perspectives those differences bring are important to our ongoing success.
The Company considers harassment and discrimination to be unjust and damaging to our work environment. In most countries, harassment and discrimination are illegal. Air Products strives to meet or exceed existing laws in all countries where we operate.
 Employees should consult all relevant regional policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures related to work environment and respect in the workplace. They should also keep
up-to-date on the Company’s training on Diversity and Inclusion, anti- harassment, and other courses about our work environment.
Air Products will not tolerate violence or threats of violence in the workplace. Employees who bring weapons or hazardous materials to work or who act in a manner that frightens or intimidates other employees will be disciplined.
 My colleague has an e-mail distribution list to which she forwards jokes that sometimes poke fun at gender, race, religion, politics and other personal differences. I find some of them offensive and worry that others do too. What should I do?

Humor is very much a matter of personal taste, and people sometimes share jokes that are not appropriate for the workplace. Your colleague may not realize that the subject matter of some of the jokes she for- wards might insult or demean members of the distribution. You should talk to her and explain your feelings. If she reacts negatively to your request, you should speak with your supervisor. Jokes, graphics, verbal comments, gestures, and other communications that embarrass or de- grade people damage our working environment. You have every right to speak up.
Equal Opportunity Employment
Air Products’ employees are its most valuable assets. Our continued success depends on attracting and keeping a diverse workforce of talented men and women. Every employee will be judged on the basis of  his or her qualifications and skills, without regard to personal characteristics. The Company fully supports all principles of equal opportunity in employment and will follow all such laws in the countries where we operate.
 Human Rights and Labor and Employment Laws
For creativity and innovation to flourish, people need an inclusive environment where their rights and points of view are welcome and respected and they
are treated with decency and dignity. Air Products is committed to fostering this environment. We follow all labor and employment laws in the countries where we operate, including laws pertaining to child labor and employee rights, such as freedom of association, privacy, and equal opportunity employment.
I’m the hiring manager for a position that involves international work. The best qualified person I’ve interviewed is a woman, but I know that some businessmen in some of these countries do not like dealing with women. Her skills are the best match, but her gender might affect our business. What should I do?
It is against the policy of Air Products, and illegal, to exclude a job candidate because of gender. It is important that we follow  the right path in what we do, regardless of location. Our integrity should never be compromised, even if the right choice might affect profit.
Visit www.airproducts.com/  integrityline for local reporting numbers
and instructions.
Report online at www.airproducts.com/  integrityonline
Sustainability,  Environment,
Health, Safety, and Security
Ensuring Sustainability
 For Air Products, sustainability encompasses many activities that are important to the Company and its stakeholders. We strive to create lasting value through environmental stewardship, social and corporate responsibility, and innovative solutions for energy, environmental and  emerging market needs. We strive to be good neighbors and fair employers in the communities where we operate. We are responsible environmental stewards and corporate citizens. Each of us should try to maintain the values of sustainable business during our daily work.
Like most large companies, Air Products uses water, energy and other resources and has an environmental footprint.
That’s why we’ve established goals to conserve resources and reduce emissions and have policies to support those goals. Our water and energy consumption goals and greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets are monitored by the Air Products Sustainability Council, and we’re working to continuously improve our performance. It’s every employee’s responsibility to advance the company towards those goals by using resources wisely, following appropriate practices for reducing waste, and recycling or reusing materials when possible.
 Sustainability includes good governance. This Code of Conduct document, related policies, standards, guidelines, and any training required for your role reinforce our commitments  for behaving with integrity in all our business transactions. If you become aware of any sustainability-related ethics and compliance issue, you should discuss your concerns immediately, using one of the contacts or tools provided here.
Acting Responsibly to Preserve and Protect the Environment
Air Products is committed to preserving the environment. The Company’s policies meet or exceed government environmental protection laws in the countries where we operate. We’re proud to be a member of several organizations that aim to minimize environmental impact from the manufacture, distribution, and use of chemicals. It’s our practice to meet those environmental guidelines in all instances. Employees must always follow all Air Products Environment, Health, Safety, and Sustainability policies, standards, and procedures and take all required training.
Securing Our Sites and Products
 Keeping Our Workplace, Employees and Communities Safe
Air Products has made it a priority to operate with safe and healthy working conditions, and that takes commitment as well as constant safety focus by each of us. Our safety record is commendable, and we are committed to continuous improvement in safety performance.
All employees are responsible for working safely and reporting unsafe conditions. We should follow all safety- related policies, standards, processes and guidelines to preserve and protect our own safety and that of our colleagues. We also have some local and regional programs, information, and tools to enhance employee health and wellness as well as policies to ensure that we all go home from work as safe as we arrived. These may vary by region, and might include policies
and standards related to tobacco use, badge systems for entry to sites, local and regional health benefits, corporate wellness programs and more. Your manager or supervisor, EH&S and Human Resources can help you understand any that apply to your
site or role.
Employee violations of safety policies, standards, guidelines, and procedures, at work or at customer sites, can result in disciplinary action. Violence, or threats of violence, and possession of weapons in the workplace won’t be tolerated.
Likewise, substance abuse on the job compromises everyone’s safety and is prohibited.
Protecting each other, our neighboring communities, and our company property is a matter we take seriously. Because we manufacture and transport products that could cause harm if used by people with malicious intent, security is a priority for Air Products.
We have taken stringent measures to ensure the safety and security of our operations and products. We are all required to follow all security policies, standards, and procedures at our sites, without exception. As employees, it’s also our responsibility to ensure visitors and guests are aware of our safety and security procedures and act in compliance with them.
Employees should alert Global Corporate Security (the Global Asset Protection Group) when they have security concerns or suspicions of any sort. In the past, potentially dangerous situations have been averted because vigilant employees took the proper security precautions or alerted Global Corporate Security about issues.
 Did you know?
I noticed that people often hold the door open to allow those behind them in the queue at our entrance to come along in without swiping their badge. I figure it’s probably OK because we’re all employees, but sometimes I do see people I don’t recognize. What should I do?
You should never allow others entry to our buildings without following the proper security procedures, which require each individual to swipe their badge at most sites. You are not being rude to deny access; you’re helping protect our people, plants and confidential information. If someone questions your action, explain that it’s a matter of Company policy that everyone entering our buildings use their own authorized badge. Likewise, we should all follow policies and procedures related  to guests and visitors for our sites.
Managing Company
Assets and Information
Appropriate Use of Company Systems, Information and Equipment
It’s everyone’s responsibility to protect Company assets. Theft and carelessness impact our profits. We should not only follow policy ourselves but also help to protect our property—including information assets—by immediately reporting any suspected fraud, theft, security breach, or improper use of Company assets by others.
Company equipment, systems, information, goods, and services should be used only for Company business.
Incidental personal use is permissible in some cases, provided it does not affect business transactions or productivity.
Using Air Products’ assets or information for personal gain is prohibited.
If you misplace or lose any device with company data stored on it, you should report that loss to Corporate Security (Global Asset Protection).
 Managing Records and Documents
Company records are important corporate assets. Effective and efficient record keeping helps our work processes operate smoothly. Proper records management is driven by legal, regulatory and operational requirements. Records and other important company information must be properly managed (created, used, shared, stored, and destroyed) throughout their life cycle.
All employees are responsible for understanding how to classify the information they handle and manage
it according to company policies as well as laws and regulations. You should consult your supervisor or department Information Lead for guidance if you are uncertain how to manage your records or documents.
Insider Trading
It is a violation of Air Products’ policy for an employee to disclose, directly or indirectly, any nonpublic information he or she becomes aware of in the course of employment with the Company. We are not allowed to use such information
to our own advantage or to Air Products’ disadvantage. For example, employees may not purchase stock in another company that we have reason to believe Air Products may be interested in acquiring. The policy is consistent with
U.S. laws on insider trading and also aims to prevent damage to the Company from the disclosure of valuable information.
Insider Trading—buying or selling Air Products stock while you know material information about the company that the public doesn’t know—is unfair. It’s also a crime. “Material” information includes
anything likely to influence a potential investor’s decision to buy or sell
Air Products stock. Significant things like potential acquisitions or divestitures, corporate earnings projections, and planned changes
in senior management can all be considered material information.
Insider trading laws prohibit less obvious things, too. If you know nonpublic material information, you may not trade Air Products stock either directly or within your retirement and savings plan. If you can’t make a trade, neither can your family members, nor anyone living in your household. Also, you are prohibited from telling others material information that is not public. Similarly, you may not buy or sell the stock of our customers, suppliers, or other business partners if you have material nonpublic information about them.
It’s about basic fairness. Investors should be able to trust that everyone trading in the market has the same information. Insider trading distorts the market and damages trust.
 Visit www.airproducts.com/ integrityline for local reporting numbers
and instructions.
Report online at www.airproducts.com/  integrityonline
Intellectual Property and Protecting Company Information Assets
We are all responsible for helping to protect Air Products’ intellectual assets. Intellectual assets (or intellectual property) include the knowledge, information, and know-how that a company and its employees possess  that can be converted to value. Written plans, product designs, current and future projects, patents, trademarks, know-how and work processes, and other valuable information are examples of intellectual assets owned by Air Products. The free flow of information at Air Products is critical to our performance. However, details of  our intellectual assets could be valuable to a competitor or other outside parties. Air Products has a comprehensive Information Risk Management program, which includes tools and techniques
for protecting intellectual assets, so employees can make the most of our combined intellectual resources. But it
takes vigilance by everyone to safeguard them. There are also policies, standards, and guidelines to help us maintain the security of our intellectual assets.
Air Products’ employees may hold or desire to receive confidential
information owned by other companies or individuals, which the Company is legally obligated to protect. If you wish to receive or make use of such confidential or proprietary information, you must first take certain steps. You must have a signed nondisclosure or confidentiality agreement, approved by the appropriate business leader, and you must abide by its terms. Following this step can help avoid potential legal claims or issues that might compromise the Company’s own research efforts, developments, and business. If you have questions or are uncertain what process to follow, consult your manager or supervisor or the Law Group.
Employees should protect all sensitive and confidential information about Air Products or other companies
or individuals from unauthorized disclosure or use. This includes following policies to protect information you personally possess as well as that housed or exchanged on any Air Products system, database or application. Using such information
for personal gain or to the disadvantage of the Company is also against
Air Products’ policies. In addition, care must be taken when storing, sharing or disposing of sensitive and confidential information, whether electronic or hard copy.
I receive some external web site advertising and promotions on my work e-mail account and subscribe to some non-work related news. Is that allowed by Company policy?
Air Products hardware, software, and systems should be used primarily for business purposes. However, it’s fine to enjoy some limited per- sonal use as long as it doesn’t impact system security, efficiency, or reliability or the productivity of you or your colleagues. However, such use can pose a threat to the Company. Viruses, malware, hacking, phishing, and other security risks are increasingly common. You should thoroughly familiarize yourself with all related policies as well as
steps to take to ensure your use of email and internet aren’t putting Air Products information—and your own personal information—in peril. Please note that reputable institutions will never ask for your identification and password when communicating with you via e-mail.
Security in Our Computing Environment
 We store valuable company information on our computers, on external storage devices and service (e.g., cloud), within our own personal technology devices, and within Air Products’ systems. That’s why employees must use Air Products’ computing environment responsibly and follow policies, standards, and guidelines related to its security—they are designed to protect our information and safeguard our computing environment from viruses, security breaches, and other “cyber threats.” These include details related to appropriate use of systems and hardware, security program installations and encryption processes, password protection, approved application downloads and installations, external storage devices, intranet access, Internet and social media use, measures to secure your PC or site hardware, and more.
Computing assets and systems are intended to be used for business purposes. However, some limited personal use is allowed as long as it doesn’t affect business productivity, system efficiency, or the employee’s performance or violate any Company policies or standards. It’s the employee’s responsibility to familiarize himself
or herself with such policies and guidelines as well as complete any required information security-related training.
 Data Privacy for Employees and Other Stakeholders
It’s the responsibility of the Company and all employees to protect personally identifiable information (PII), just as we do Air Products’ corporate information. Examples of PII are personal identification numbers; employment, medical, and financial details; employment records; and similar information. Air Products’ employees must also protect information about customers, suppliers, partners, and other stakeholders.
 Employee Privacy in Our Computing Environment
Air Products’ computing and data storage hardware, software, systems, and applications are Company property. Some e-mail uses are strictly prohibited, including sending illegal, defamatory, offensive, or harassing messages or files; violating copyright laws; unauthorized disclosure of confidential, sensitive, or proprietary information; and sending solicitations for funds.
Since the hardware and software used by employees are the Company’s responsibility, individual privacy may not be guaranteed when using any system, including e-mail and instant messaging, with internal or external parties. Employees should not assume
that their e-mail is private or personally confidential. The Company reserves
the right, to the fullest extent available under applicable regional law, to intercept and scan e-mail and monitor all other systems to ensure appropriate use and compliance with policy, standards, guidelines, and the law.
We can help protect Air Products’ information, as well as our own personal information by using our computing environment responsibly and complying with related policies and procedures.
Conflicting Personal Interests
What Might Constitute a Conflict of Interest?
 
Employees should avoid any situation
Examples of where a conflict of interest may arise include:
that involves, or appears to involve, a     
conflict between their personal  interests and the interests of the Company. That means employees should avoid circumstances that might cloud their judgment or impartiality when doing their jobs. If your personal interests or your relationships cause you to feel favoritism (or if it might appear
    If an employee or his or her family member is an owner or part-owner of an Air Products customer or supplier company or a consultant, wage earner, or someone who gets other compensation from that company
    If an employee would have personal gain from arranging a relationship between Air Products and a customer, supplier, or partner
    If an employee receives personal benefits, such as loans or guarantees of obligations, from a customer, supplier, or partner
to others that you feel favoritism), a      
conflict of interests exists.
    If an employee is connected with any business that is in direct or indirect competition with Air Products
    If an employee discovers an opportunity for personal gain through his or her position or through the use of Company equipment or systems
Investing in shares in companies traded on major public exchanges acquired in an arm’s-length transaction as a part of a normal investment program doesn’t normally constitute a conflict. If you have questions about whether a situation
is a conflict of interest, contact the Law Group or the Corporate Audit Department.
 My sister is part-owner of a company bidding for a supply agreement with Air Products. It’s my job to evaluate the incoming bids. Is this a conflict of interest?
Yes. Because of your close family tie, you might be perceived as biased in your bid evaluation. You should explain the situation and ask your supervisor to assign someone else to look at and compare the supplier proposals.
Giving or Receiving Gifts during the Course of Business
 It’s normal and customary for people to give and receive meals or inexpensive entertainment during the course of business. Exchanging high-value gifts or providing or receiving excessive or inappropriate entertainment is unethical and may be illegal. It can
be damaging to both your personal business reputation and that of
Air Products.
In business relationships, no employee should offer or accept anything of value that might seem to be an attempt to influence business decisions or that might look like a bribe or a payoff.
Giving or receiving cash is against Company policy, except in very specific and defined circumstances. It’s appropriate to accept reasonable and appropriate meals or entertainment during business interactions, and we’re encouraged to reciprocate with similar courtesies to maintain a balanced relationship. But providing or receiving entertainment or gifts that are inappropriate or in excess of that
 permitted by current Company policies, standards, or guidelines is unethical.
Likewise, employees should avoid even inexpensive exchanges when they know or suspect they’re against the policy of the other party’s company.
The Company sets limits on the amount of goodwill gifts an employee may give or accept, and we are expected to understand these limits. If you have
any questions concerning whether any gift or entertainment is excessive or inappropriate, you should consult related Company policies and ask your supervisor or manager, the Audit Department, or the Chief Risk Officer for advice.
Because there are very technical laws and regulations regarding dealings with government employees, gift-giving in these relationships might be illegal. No gifts should be given to government employees without first seeking the approval of your immediate supervisor and a representative of the Law Group.
Visit www.airproducts.com/ integrityline for local reporting numbers
and instructions.
Report online at www.airproducts.com/ integrityonline
Did you know?
A supplier has suggested meeting at a luxury resort to discuss our contract, and he has offered to pay for my trip and all associated expenses, including some pricey show tickets. Since this is business-related, can I take the offer?
No, the supplier’s offer exceeds what is considered reasonable and customary by Air Products’ policies and guidelines. Accepting such an inappropriate offer—or giving gifts, travel, or entertainment in excess of allowable amounts—could be perceived as corruption and bribery to influence business decisions. Both the law and Air Products policy forbid such transactions.
Interacting with the Public
Community Involvement
 Air Products has a long-standing tradition of supporting and helping the communities where we operate and where our employees and their families live and work. The Company organizes and sponsors community outreach and education events. Employees from our local sites work together with residents and organizations in their areas to improve both the community and the way we do business. However, employees should always follow Air Products’ policies when using Company funds for such outreach and events. Likewise, a non-solicitation policy applies to some situations and/or regions, which prohibits individual employees from fundraising or organizing events. The Community Relations Department, Corporate Communications, or Human Resources can guide employees with questions in this area.
Employee participation during normal working hours is subject to the local manager’s discretion in some regions. Joining in community outreach is generally a matter of choice. No employee should feel pressured to participate in any Air Products outreach event or to contribute to company- organized fundraising. During working hours, employee participation is subject
to his or her manager’s discretion. Political Involvement,
Lobbying, Gifts and Contributions
At Air Products, one of our core values is to responsibly care for each other, our communities, and the global environment. Air Products encourages employees, officers, and directors to contribute to the community and to fully participate in local, national, and international politics. However, in doing so, Air Products and its employees must follow the laws governing participation in political affairs, including political contributions, lobbying, and gift giving. In some countries and jurisdictions, political contributions, lobbying, and gift giving are not permitted.
We may not lobby, give gifts, or otherwise try to influence the actions of government officials regarding legislation or other policy decisions on matters relating to Company business unless the action is approved by the Law Group and/or Corporate Relations.
Visit www.airproducts.com/  integrityline for local reporting numbers
and instructions.
Report online at www.airproducts.com/  integrityonline
Communicating with the Public
 It’s important to coordinate our lobbying efforts. Often employers and employees who engage in lobbying must register to lobby, as must external parties hired by the Company to engage in lobbying activities or make lobbying contacts. It’s also Air Products’ policy to comply with all laws governing political contributions. And, as a matter of policy, Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., as a legal entity, does not make corporate political contributions to candidates in any country or region, even where allowed by law. Employees are free to give a personal contribution to a party or candidate on their own behalf, but they may not make any contribution of Company funds, including petty cash, property, or services, to any political party or committee, or to any candidate for or holder of any office of any government. And they may not seek reimbursement for any such personal contribution. This policy does not prevent, where lawful, the operation of a Political Action Committee (“PAC”).
The Air Products Political Alliance (PAC), which is a separate legal entity from
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., makes contributions to U.S. federal and state candidates who support the Company’s interests.
It’s particularly important that external communications are accurate and consistent and don’t violate confidentiality, applicable laws, privacy rights, or sensitivities. External communications could include those
to customers, journalists, financial analysts and investors, bloggers, participants of social and professional networking sites, our communities, our colleagues in industry, and other members of outside groups. Published information can have a significant effect on Air Products’ reputation as well as have serious business and legal
consequences. We should all use caution when communicating outside the Company.
The ease of electronic communication in today’s world means Company information that well-intentioned employees casually post or publish— or perhaps do not even mean to share broadly—can easily appear on the Web and be found through an Internet search. To be sure that external communications comply with current policies and standards, Air Products requires certain internal reviews.
If you are approached by the media or wish to publish information about your work, contact Corporate Communications for advice. If you are approached by an investor or analyst, contact Investor Relations. Technical papers should include approval from your manager or supervisor and, in some cases, legal review. If you are asked to make an external presentation, consult your supervisor, who may decide to review it with Corporate Communications or the Law Group. These reviews are intended to protect you and the Company from unintended consequences and to present Air Products consistently and professionally. If you have contact
with the media or publish information in your outside-of-work activities, specify that you’re offering your personal opinion, not necessarily that of Air Products. Likewise, use caution not to disclose sensitive information.
Visit www.airproducts.com/  integrityline for local reporting numbers
and instructions.
Report online at www.airproducts.com/ integrityonline
 Social Media Use
Ease and speed of electronic communication continues to advance, and employees should use extra caution when using these electronic communication tools inside or outside of work. Social networking sites and other electronic forums, both personal and professional, are very popular. It’s easy to distribute information to a very broad audience in just a few clicks. But we must take precautions that what we share in social media is not in violation
of any Air Products policies or standards designed to protect the safety and security of our information, our business reputation, or the privacy of employees, customers, or partners.
Company information, even that intended for business use, should only be posted by authorized Air Products spokespeople after review by Corporate Communications.
Likewise, if you are using professional networking sites, take care to ensure you’re not divulging any sensitive, private, proprietary, or confidential information as part of your resumé, curriculum vitae, professional profile, correspondence, or other communication.
 I saw some views expressed in postings on an online business com- munity site about Air Products’ financial performance. The opinions contain a number of factual errors as well as incorrect assumptions regarding management. Should I correct the errors and post to respond with more positive comments?
No, you should not respond or publish corrections or any other remarks unless you are an authorized Air Products spokesperson. The original posting could be in violation of Air Products’ Social Media Standard if the person who authored it was an employee not authorized to speak on behalf of Air Products. You should report the site to Corporate Communications for consideration. That organization will determine whether a response is appropriate and what action to take.
Interacting within
Our Industry
Antitrust and Competition Laws
 We expect our employees to follow the “letter and spirit” of the antitrust laws of the United States and the competition laws of any other country or group of countries whose laws apply to our business. That means obeying the clearly defined situations covered by the law as well as the intent of the laws in circumstances that are more complex and ambiguous. If an employee is ever unsure whether an action will violate the law, he or she should consult the Law Group. Air Products prospers through the merits of our products and services in a free and open competitive marketplace. No employee should assume that profits ever require or justify illegal actions.
 Business competition is a cornerstone of a robust economy, and antitrust and competition laws protect the freedom  of the marketplace. In general, antitrust and competition laws prohibit agreements or actions that may restrain trade or reduce competition. Some of these laws make certain agreements and understandings between competitors per se unlawful. That means they are flatly prohibited and cannot be defended or justified in any way. Whether the understanding or agreement adversely affected competition is not considered; instead it is presumed to be illegal. For example, per se violations include agreements among competitors to: 1) fix or control
 

prices or terms, 2) boycott certain suppliers or customers, 3) allocate products, territories or markets, or 4) limit the production or sale of products.

Antitrust and competition laws are complex and difficult to interpret, and they apply to a broad range of corporate activities. Violations can carry serious civil and criminal sanctions. Even the allegation of a violation can be damaging and disruptive to the Company. Great care and attention is expected of employees in a position to affect the commercial actions of the Company.
At a trade association meeting, a representative of one of our com- petitors approached me with an idea to jointly build a production facility in a certain region where both companies need more product. It would be in everyone’s financial interests. Should I talk further with him about this?
This isn’t a decision you can make alone. Whether this joint production effort would be legal is a question that requires careful thought. You should contact our Law Group to review it with you.

Competitor Relationships
 Contact with competitors can serve legitimate business purposes, such as certain trade association meetings and activities or the discussion of joint business or research ventures. And in some cases we buy from and/or sell to our competitors, so legitimate business dealings must take place. However, employees should use caution in their contacts with competitors because some information should not be freely exchanged. When you have any doubt if a transaction or course of conduct is consistent with Company policy or when considering a joint business or research venture of this kind, you should consult our Law Group for guidance.
 Appropriate Ways to Obtain Competitive Information
Market research—trying to understand and anticipate the products, plans, and strategies of competitors—is part of good business. This information can
be gathered from many legal sources, but there are clear limits. Improper acquisition or use of confidential information of competitors can have serious legal and business consequences. For example, laws in many countries impose severe criminal penalties for individuals or organizations that improperly receive or pass along trade secrets.
 

A competitor representative I know suggested that, in a certain region, we are probably both suffering with unnecessarily low margins. She said that we could make life simpler for ourselves by agreeing which  of us will get the business of each of the major customers in that region. How should I respond?

This sort of agreement would be illegal, not to mention unethical, and the legal consequences might be severe. You should make your refusal to consider this very clear. You do not want anyone to be in a position to suggest that you agreed by your actions, even though you did not say “yes.” This should be reported to our Law Group.

International Laws
Antiboycott Laws
Some governments refuse to deal with another country’s government or their businesses. They target the other country as part of a boycott and try to get others to do the same. These governments try to strengthen their boycott by making other outside customers and suppliers also refuse to do business with the targeted country. The country doing the boycotting tries to apply pressure to these outside countries by saying they must also boycott the targeted country as a condition of doing business in their own country. The United States has laws and regulations generally prohibiting U.S. companies and their foreign and domestic subsidiaries from cooperating with boycotts that the U.S. government does not support. These laws also require companies to report to
 U.S. governmental agencies when they receive written or oral requests to comply with or support such boycotts. What’s more, some local laws governing international trade are extra-territorial. That means that a country can enforce its laws beyond its own borders. So if Air Products is in violation of another country’s antiboycott laws, it may be held accountable. Always consult the Law Group for guidance if you are uncertain about how international laws may apply to a given situation. Violations may result in criminal and civil penalties and the loss of tax benefits.
Import/Export Laws
Global importing and exporting laws require accurate classification,
 valuation, license determination, end- user/end-use screening, record keeping, timely filing, and marking of commodities and technologies crossing international borders. The United States and other governments may restrict, through required licensing, the exportation, importation, or
re-exportation of commodities based on factors such as origin, classification, or the dual-use nature of many of our commodities and technologies, as well as the identity of the customer. Exports and re-exports to countries designated “embargoed” under U.S. law or the jurisdiction of the exporting country are prohibited. Violations may result in criminal and civil penalties and loss of exporting or importing privileges.
Did you know?



I just won a supply bid for Air Products, but the draft contract contains a provision requiring that we agree not to use components or persons from a certain country in performing the contract. We don’t need to use anything from that country, but is signing it against U.S. antiboycott law?

The Law Group needs to review this contract (and any contract). In this case, the boycott language contained in all documentation must be removed or appropriately amended. These details cannot be replaced with a verbal agreement either, so use caution when speaking to the customer.

Global Anti-bribery and Corrupt Practices Laws

As a U.S. Company, Air Products must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). That Act prohibits payments and offers of payments of anything of value to foreign officials, political parties, or candidates for foreign political office to get, keep, or direct business. And claiming not to know of the wrongdoing will not serve as a defense where circumstances should reasonably have alerted you to it. Payments made indirectly through intermediaries, such as sales agents and consultants, when most people would understand that such payments are being passed along for prohibited purposes, are also illegal.
In addition to certain prohibited actions, the law also requires internal accounting control and record keeping by the Company in connection with any payments by its foreign subsidiaries.
 
The issues presented by this law are more complex than they may at first appear. For example, although you might not consider the term “foreign official” to include employees of businesses owned by a foreign government, the law would generally consider them to be “foreign officials.” To complicate things further, certain exceptions exist in the law. For these reasons and others, the assistance of the Law Group is essential for working through the complexities of the issues encountered in connection with complying with this law.

Other countries, including many of the major industrialized countries in Western Europe and Asia, have or are
enacting similar laws.  Recent examples include laws in the U.K. and the People’s Republic of China. It’s important to note that in many countries both international and local laws may apply—some laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, are extra-territorial; that is, they
 
reach beyond the boundaries of their own countries to apply to acts of bribery committed overseas. Many such laws apply a broad definition to “public official” or “corrupt practices” and state that local custom or practice, if questionable regarding corruption and bribes, must be disregarded. The law always takes precedence. We must never sacrifice our integrity, not even for profit or ease of business.

The U.K. Bribery Act 2010, for example, contains two broad categories of offense—the offering, promising or giving of an advantage, and requesting, agreeing to receive, or accepting of an advantage—in business transactions involving either government officials or private parties. But the Act itself is complex, and legal repercussions can be severe, including imprisonment and unlimited fines. Under the Act, companies are required not only to refuse participation in bribes or other unethical practices for business preference but to have adequate
 
measures in place to prevent corruption and bribery. Unlike the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 does not permit facilitation payments, which are sometimes requested to induce public officials in some countries to perform their function, such as issuing permits or licenses. While these payments may have been allowed in some cases in the past, Air Products’ employees and other associated parties are prohibited from paying facilitation payments to any foreign official except in very exceptional cases with prior approval from the Law Group.

Under certain circumstances, Air Products could be found guilty of bribery for actions taken by third parties or “associated parties” acting on our behalf. Associated parties include joint venture partners, agents, distributors, employees of outside service providers, or subcontractors who perform services on our behalf. It is important that employees of Air Products remain alert for any suspicious behavior or events
 
and report them to the Corporate Risk Office, the Law Group, or their manager.

As an Air Products employee, you must always be familiar with existing policies for global competition and international trade. You may also be required to submit certifications of ethical conduct, complete related role- or position-based training, or take steps to dispel even the impression of corruption or unfairness. Your manager or supervisor or the Law Group can assist if you’re unclear about any situation. You should never hesitate to ask questions or express concerns on this important legal area.

Before doing business outside of your home country, you need to have a working knowledge of the laws and policies of the countries in which you will be doing business. If you have questions about any International Law matter, please contact the Law Group.
 Financial Accounting
and Reporting Accuracy

Honest and accurate financial reporting is basic to our reputation for integrity. Our financial accounting and reporting rules are governed by U.S. law.
Air Products is a global company with operations in more than 40 countries. As such, its financial accounting and reporting is also governed by local statutory requirements. U.S. law, local statutory requirements and Air Products’ policies all require honest and accurate financial reporting.

Honest reporting means a full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in all documents. Air Products files complete financial reports with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and issues financial summaries in other public statements and communications. It is essential that these statements be accurate and honest to allow us to comply with the law and investor expectations.
 
Accurate reporting also helps us make good decisions for our businesses and operations. So our continued business success demands it too.

Employees should accurately prepare all business records (accounts, invoices, travel and entertainment expense reports, payrolls, reports, and books) and record all financial transactions in a timely manner. Financial transactions should be recorded in accordance with Air Products’ Finance Policies and Standards and local regulations and accounting rules as appropriate.
 
Here are some other requirements:
    Substantiate our ledger entries with detailed documentation
    Avoid any false or intentionally misleading entries, including numbers, categories, timing, or other details
    Maintain corporate funds and accounts according to our standard practices, including the timely reconciliation of accounts
    Use accounts and funds only for a purpose that is fully and accurately described in the documentation
 Visit www.airproducts.com/  integrityline for local reporting numbers
and instructions.
Report online at www.airproducts.com/ integrityonline
 Board Responsibility
and Waivers
The Board of Directors has adopted the Code of Conduct, and only the Board may approve amendments to the Code. In rare circumstances, the Chief Compliance Officer may determine it is appropriate to waive a portion of the Code of Conduct. Any waiver of the application of the Code that would apply to Executive Officers (as designated by the Board of Directors) of the Company, however, can be made only by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board
of Directors. All such waivers shall be promptly disclosed to the shareholders of the Company.

Air Products has resources available to report Code of Conduct violations or suspected violations or express concerns. The laws in some countries specify or limit the process, tools, and/or allowable categories for reporting Code of Conduct violations. Please use the resources available as allowed by local law.

A contact list can be found at www.airproducts.com/codeofconduct. Online reporting is available at www.airproducts.com/integrityonline.
Telephone reporting instructions are detailed at  www.airproducts.com/integrityline.




AkzoNobel
Region: WEOG
Country: Netherlands
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of conduct
Who we are and how we work
This manual contains AkzoNobel’s code of conduct. In 2008, AkzoNobel redefined its comapny values. These values are:
Focusing on our customers’ future fi
Embracing entrepreneurial thinking
Developing the talents of our people
Courage and curiosity to question
Integrity and responsibility in our actions

Introduction
As an employee of AkzoNobel, you are expected to act in accordance with our company values and business
principles and to comply with company policies, laws and regulations. The company values and business principles are an expression of who we are and how we want to be perceived by our stakeholders. Laid down in company directives, policies and guidelines, they are intended to be put into practice by all employees on a daily basis.
This code of conduct contains an overview of key in- formation, including the business principles and direc- tives, which are relevant to all employees. The code is a statement of who we are and how we work. When- ever we encounter difficult ethical or legal issues, we need to resolve them in line with our code of conduct. This code is a living document, and will therefore be updated when so required. As an employee, you will always be notified when an update is made.
The key sections of this document cover:
    Our company
    Business integrity
    Company responsibilities
    Employee responsibilities
 Furthermore, you should bring to the attention of management any activity which is in violation of company policy or law. To this end, AkzoNobel has established a complaints procedure, which can help you to determine the best way to voice your concerns.
We are committed to providing full protection to employees who report a breach or suspected breach of the code. For absolute clarity, we stress that senior management will not hold employees accountable for any loss of business resulting from compliance with this code.
Please be aware that in the event of a failure to comply with, or in case of any willful breach of, our business principles and code of conduct, the company will consider disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Now that the business principles rollout has been completed, we assume all our employees are already acting in accordance with them.
If you have any questions about how to interpret or apply the code, or any other company policies or directives, please consult your manager.
Our company
Business principles
As described in the company statement, it is AkzoNobel’s ambition to be the first choice of customers, shareholders and employees, and to be a respected member of society. In the spirit of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enter- prises, this document sets out the values that should guide the conduct of all AkzoNobel companies in order to fulfill these ambitions. In this respect, AkzoNobel’s business prin- ciples apply equally to our business transactions throughout the world and to the individual behavior of employees in con- ducting AkzoNobel’s business. The business principles also bring together the main AkzoNobel responsibilities for other specific policy areas.
The business principles leave Business Unit Management and Country Management free to specify further local rules of business conduct, provided such rules are consistent with our values and with safeguarding AkzoNobel’s good reputa- tion worldwide.
It is the responsibility of the Board of Management and each Business Unit Manager to ensure that AkzoNobel’s business principles are communicated to and observed by AkzoNo- bel employees. In addition, AkzoNobel regards the appli- cation of its business principles to be of prime importance in making decisions about whether or not to enter into or continue relationships with contractors and suppliers, and to participate in joint ventures.
 Our values
Our values are embodied in “Tomorrow’s Answers Today”. We believe in:
Focusing on our customers’ future first Embracing entrepreneurial thinking Developing the talents of our people Courage and curiosity to question Integrity and responsibility in our actions
Responsibilities
AkzoNobel is committed to creating long-term value for customers, shareholders, employees, and society, recognizing that sustainable profit is essential for the continuity of its business.
We will focus our efforts on the success of our customers. In this respect, it is our responsibility to provide customers with products and services that offer value in terms of price and quality, and that meet high health, safety, and environmental standards.
We will provide competitive returns on our shareholders’ investments. In this respect, it is our responsibility to take due account of the expectations of our investors.
We will create an attractive working environment for our employees. In this respect, it is our responsibility to recruit, hire and promote employees solely on the basis of their suit- ability for the job; to stimulate their individual and professional development; and to provide safe and healthy working conditions. It is also our responsibility to prohibit harassment or discrimination of any kind, and to avoid at all costs any exploitation of child labor.
We will conduct our activities in a socially responsible manner. In this respect, we observe the laws of the countries in which we operate; support fundamental human rights in line with the legitimate role of business; and give proper regard to health, safety, and the environment, consistent with our commitment to contribute to sustainable development.
Free enterprise
AkzoNobel supports the principles of free enterprise and fair competition. The company aims to meet customers’ needs faster, better, and more distinctively than our competitors. To this end, AkzoNobel will compete vigorously but fairly, and within the framework of applicable competition laws.
Business integrity
AkzoNobel insists on integrity and fairness in all aspects of its business operations.
    Bribery and any other forms of unethical business practice are prohibited.
    AkzoNobel employees are expected to avoid all situations in which their personal or financial interests may conflict with the company’s interest.
All business transactions shall be accurately and completely recorded in accordance with the company’s accounting principles, and local laws and may be subject to audit.
Community activities
AkzoNobel companies are encouraged to support community activities.
    AkzoNobel companies are to give their employees the opportunity to play an active role in society – for example, through community or educational programs – unless participation in these activities creates a confl   of interest.
    AkzoNobel companies are not to make payments to political parties, or their institutions, agencies, or representatives.
 Communication
AkzoNobel recognizes that, in view of the company’s scope of activities, the impact they have on stakeholders, and the public role the company fulfills, proper communication is essential. Subject to any overriding considerations of confidentiality, AkzoNobel companies endeavor to commu- nicate with others in an open, factual, and timely manner.
Compliance
The Board of Management will not hold management ac- countable for any loss of business resulting from compliance with AkzoNobel’s business principles, and will see to it that no employee suffers as a consequence of reporting a breach, or suspected breach, of these principles.
The environment
AkzoNobel protects the environment by preventing or minimizing the environmental impact of its activities and products through appropriate design, manufacturing, distri- bution and disposal practices.
AkzoNobel expects all employees to play a role in protecting the environment. If an employee becomes aware of any violation of environmental law, or any action that may appear to conceal such a violation, the employee should immediately report the matter to his or her manager — or, if required, to AkzoNobel’s General Counsel via the complaints procedure.
AkzoNobel seeks to extend its concern for health, safety and the environment to its suppliers and customers through a product stewardship management system.
Community support
AkzoNobel supports activities in the communities in which its employees live and work. The AkzoNobel Community Program provides the means to support such programs, provided employees are personally involved. Employees are therefore encouraged to actively participate, and to propose projects to site management or site committees.
Business integrity
Complying with laws
AkzoNobel’s policy is to comply with all laws and regulations that apply to its business. When conducting AkzoNobel’s business, employees may encounter a variety of legal issues, particularly in the areas described below. If there are questions on specific laws or regulations, contact AkzoNobel Legal & IP.
Communication and information
AkzoNobel recognizes that in view of the scope of its activities, the impact they have on stakeholders, and the public role the  company  fulfills,  proper  communication is essential. Subject to any overriding considerations of confidentiality, AkzoNobel companies endeavor to commu- nicate with others in an open, factual, and timely manner.
Free enterprise and fair competition
AkzoNobel supports the principles of free enterprise and fair competition. The company aims to meet customers’ needs faster, better, and more distinctively than our competitors. To this end, AkzoNobel will compete vigorously but fairly, and within the framework of applicable competition laws. AkzoNobel insists on integrity and fairness in all aspects of its business operations.
Bribery and any other forms of unethical business practice are prohibited.
AkzoNobel employees are expected to avoid all situations in which their personal or financial interests may conflict with the company’s interest.
All business transactions shall be accurately and completely recorded in accordance with the company’s accounting principles, and local laws and may be subject to audit.
Competition law compliance
AkzoNobel will compete for business. AkzoNobel expects its employees to compete lawfully and ethically as well. AkzoNobel operates a strict policy to ensure that its operations around the world are in full compliance with all applicable competition laws and the AkzoNobel competition law compliance policy.
Dealing with suppliers
AkzoNobel wants to do business with business partners who endorse our values and our social and environmental standards as formulated in our business principles. AkzoNobel regards the application of its business principles as being of prime importance in deciding whether to enter into or to continue relationships with suppliers and contractors.
Payments
Bribery
Bribery and any other forms of unethical business practice are prohibited. Under no circumstance shall any AkzoNobel officer, employee, agent or representative make, offer, promise or authorize any payment or gift:

    To gain any business advantage;
    To influence the policy of any government, or;
    That could bear the appearance of impropriety.

Please understand that an offer alone, without actual payment, still violates AkzoNobel’s policy and the law.
Commission payments
The rule prohibiting bribes of any form may not be circumvented by commission payments. Any commission payment should be justified by a clear and traceable service rendered to AkzoNobel. The remuneration of agents, distributors and commissioners cannot exceed normal business rates and practices. Government officials shall not be appointed by AkzoNobel as agents, distributors or commissioners.
Facilitation payments
Facilitation payments are small payments made in money or in kind (for example AkzoNobel products) to officials, in accordance with publicly-known or widely-followed local customs, to expedite performance of routine government actions (such as processing a required government license). AkzoNobel promotes measures to eliminate such practices. More generally, all applicable laws and regulations should be complied with — in some countries, this completely rules out the making of facilitation payments. For clarification as to whether a particular payment constitutes a facilitation pay- ment, and whether the payment is legally allowed, please consult AkzoNobel Legal & IP.
Recording of payments
All payments, including facilitation payments, must be recorded in the appropriate ledgers in accordance with the company’s accounting principles and all applicable local laws. Secret accounts and/or bookkeeping outside company accounts are strictly forbidden. No payments will be channeled through an agent unless they form part of normal agency fees or reimbursement for incurred costs. Apart from petty cash transactions, cash payments to third parties are not permitted; all payments should be made to a bank account designated in writing. Payments to so-called numbered accounts are not permitted. A request by a contract partner to divert a payment to an entity or person offshore shall always be rejected. All payments will be subject to internal and external audit.
All financial transactions must be recorded in a timely and accurate manner. In addition, any information pertaining to a transaction must be recorded. AkzoNobel’s records should reflect transactions carried out in conformity with accepted accounting standards, and should be designed to prevent off-the-books transactions such as kickbacks and bribes. Accordingly, company employees must follow all applicable standards, principles and laws for accounting and financial reporting. No employee should establish an undisclosed or unrecorded account on behalf of the company for any pur- pose. In addition, false or artificial entries are not to be made in the books and records of AkzoNobel for any reason.
Money laundering
AkzoNobel will not enter into, nor tolerate, any arrangement which facilitates (or which appears to or is suspected to be used to facilitate) any acquisition, retention, use, or control of any property or money intended to disguise the proceeds of crime.
Gifts
No personal gifts or favors of any material commercial value can be made to, or accepted from, a third party. A gift or favor of material value is defined as an object with such a value that it may influence a buying decision and/or may lead to a relation of dependency. In case of any doubt, a superior has to be consulted.
In every unit/department of the company, there must be full transparency between subordinates and superiors with respect to business gifts.
 Fraud, deception or irregular conduct
Anyone who detects or suspects a case of fraud, deception, or irregular conduct shall immediately inform the superior of the directly responsible manager. This individual must contact the Group Auditor of the Internal Auditing Service (AUD) in order to determine the action required. Definitions:

    Fraud – the deliberate misappropriation, falsification, omis- sion, or removal of data, money and/or goods whereby resources or assets are unlawfully diverted to or from the company.
    Deception or irregular conduct – the deliberate provision of incorrect, incomplete and/or unclear information, or the violation of the contract of employment, the corporate di- rectives or other rules in ways not included under fraud, with the result that financial information and/or decision- making is improperly influenced or affected.
Presence in high risk countries
AkzoNobel is of the opinion that our activities provide opportunities to improve the living standards and welfare of a broad cross-section of the communities in which we operate. One of our business principles is that we will support fundamental human rights in line with the legitimate role of business.

    No one other than the Board of Management decides upon the foundation of a company (new legal entity), including direct entry into countries where AkzoNobel has no presence.
    AkzoNobel business units must comply with economic sanctions imposed by the UN. The conditions and time- frame for withdrawal from such a country have to be decided by the Board of Management. (In exceptional cases – usually after dialogue with stakeholders – the Board of Management might decide that our presence in such a high risk country remains justifi for the good of the population).
Business units and service units operating in high risk countries must consider the issues involved using the self- assessment tool on IntrANet. The aim of the self-assessment is to make business units and service units aware of the human rights impact of their  operations. If a negative impact seems possible or likely, they are encouraged to take precautions and/or find solutions that are beneficial for employees and the communities in which they operate.
Child labor
Child labor refers to a type and intensity of work that hampers children’s access to education, damages their physical and/ or psychological health and their development within their families, and deprives them of their childhood or their self- respect. Therefore AkzoNobel employees need to adhere to the following:

    AkzoNobel adheres to the legal minimum age require- ments in all countries in which the company is active.
    Moreover, in adhering to the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) Convention 138 on “Minimum Age,” and Convention 182 on the “Ban of Worst Forms of Child Labor,” AkzoNobel does not employ children under the age of 16.
    If children between age 16 and 18 are employed, the
company  ensures  that  this  work  does  not  affect  or preclude schooling.
    Business unit management is responsible for making the
AkzoNobel standards with regard to child labor known to key suppliers and contractors.
Forced labor
AkzoNobel will under no circumstances make use of forced labor. AkzoNobel will only employ employees who are working of their own free will. No employee is required to lodge deposits, and no individual will be deprived of identity papers upon commencing employment with the company. Business unit management is responsible for making the AkzoNobel standards with regard to forced labor known to key suppliers and contractors.
 
Company responsibilities
Open communication
Openness, integrity and reliability foster open two-way communications between the employee and his/her superior on all aspects of the working environment. In principle, all employees are encouraged to discuss such matters with their immediate supervisor or, when communication with the immediate supervisor is constrained, with the direct supervisor’s manager.
Where the communication through the employee’s hierarchical line is not a viable option, any employee may use the company complaints procedure to highlight the issue to senior management.
Equal opportunities
We are committed to an attractive working environment for our employees. In this respect, it is our responsibility to recruit, hire and promote employees solely on the basis of suitability for the job, to stimulate their individual and profes- sional development, and to provide safe and healthy working conditions. It is also our responsibility to prohibit harassment of any kind, as well as the exploitation of child labor.
Our employees must be recruited, selected and promoted on the basis of objective and non-discriminatory criteria. No harassment or discrimination of any kind will be tolerated (for example, discrimination based on race, color, sex, or religion).
In the case of disability or chronic illness, including HIV/AIDS, employees should be able to work for as long as they are medically fit in available, approriate employment positions, without facing prejudice or discrimination. Disability and chronic illness (including HIV/AIDS) is not cause for termina- tion of employment. In all circumstances, employees should be allowed to retain their employment insofar as they are able to fulfill the requirements of available and appropriate work.
AkzoNobel’s managers are expected to possess the flexibility to act with due regard for existing differences in individual quality, personal ambition, national culture, and organiza- tional interest. They should feel challenged to manage such differences.
Healthy work environment
AkzoNobel provides safe and healthy working conditions in order to prevent harm to, and promote the health of, all employees and other stakeholders. In order to do so, health and safety programs, rules and regulations apply at all sites. It is the responsibility of each employee to comply with health and safety regulations.
AkzoNobel will do what is in its power to prevent any injuries at work, both for our own employees and for our contractors.
Beyond this, the company seeks to adapt work to the capabilities of all employees in relation to their physical and mental health. Care and support should be integral to the response to employees with chronic disability or chronic illness. All employees should have access to affordable health services. In areas with a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS, access to voluntary and anonymous counseling and testing should be encouraged and supported.
Disclosure of medical information
There is no justification for asking job applicants or employees to disclose personal medical information (e.g. pre-employment HIV testing) beyond the medical data required to ensure suit- ability for the job. All personal medical information is treated as confidential.
 Right to organize
AkzoNobel recognizes the freedom of employees to establish or join an organization of their choice (including trade unions), and will respect this right. AkzoNobel will not make the employment of a worker subject to the condition that he/ she must not join a union, or must relinquish trade union membership. AkzoNobel will not dismiss or otherwise express workplace prejudice against a worker for the mere reason of trade union membership.
Collective bargaining
AkzoNobel respects, within the framework of applicable laws, regulations, prevailing labor relations and employment practices, the right to be represented by trade unions and other employee organizations. AkzoNobel will engage in the negotiation/consultation process either on its own behalf or through employers’ associations whenever applicable. Local rights and co-determination will be fully respected with a view to reaching agreement on employment terms and conditions.
 Participation in political life
AkzoNobel encourages its employees to play an active role in society, including through activities in political parties and standing for election to public office.
AkzoNobel companies are not to make any payments or donations in kind to political parties or their institutions, agencies or representatives. AkzoNobel companies will also not facili- tate political donations by employee action committees.
Protection of personal data
AkzoNobel recognizes the importance of protecting personal data and has committed itself to a global Privacy code of conduct. As an employee, you are encouraged to read the Privacy code of conduct. AkzoNobel shall only process personal data for specified purposes, and in line with the provisions of the Privacy code of conduct. Personal data will include name, home address, social security number, performance appraisal data (P&D Dialog), etc.
Performance & Development Dialog
The Performance & Development Dialog (P&D Dialog) is AkzoNobel’s performance appraisal program. It supports our global business with a common process, terminology, and tools, and focuses all employees and managers on an ongoing dialogue on performance and development. The use of this program is part of our culture, and the responsibility of all employees.
Employee responsibilities
Media relations and disclosures
To ensure a uniform level of information – to our shareholders, for example – and to protect commercially sensitive information, financial details released to the media should never exceed the level of detail provided in AkzoNobel’s quarterly and annual reports or official statements issued at the presentation of these figures.
Additional, more specific financial information to be released by business units and/or national organizations must first be approved by the appropriate member of the Board of Management.
As regards topics such as financial performance, acquisitions, divestments, joint ventures and major investments (more than EUR 10 million), no information should be released to the press without prior consultation with corporate communications.
Contacts with the media about social, environmental, financial or other issues that may affect the image of the company should be brought to the attention of, or discussed with, corporate communications beforehand to avoid conflicting messages on behalf of the company.
Employees need to refrain from statements that might make third parties capable of “insider trading” on the stock market.
Inside information
AkzoNobel employees may become aware of information about AkzoNobel or other companies that has not been made public. The use of such non-public or “inside” information about AkzoNobel or another company, other than in the normal performance of one’s work, profession or position, is unethical and may also be a violation of law. In most jurisdictions, it is unlawful for any person who has “material” non-public information about a company to trade the stock or other securities of such company, including options, puts, calls, and any derivatives, or to disclose such information to others who may trade. Violation of such laws may result in civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions. AkzoNobel will not tolerate the improper use of inside information, regardless of whether it is unlawful or not.
Inside information may be share price sensitive. Share price sensitive information is information about a listed company’s results of operations or other affairs that would, if generally known, be expected to have an impact on such company’s share price. This information is illustrated by, but not limited to the following examples:

    Information on earnings
    Merger and acquisition deals
    New products with a potentially important corporate/ financial impact
    Letters received from government agencies (such as the FDA) with a potential/qualified impact
    Changes in control or management
    Changes in auditors or their opinion
    Events regarding securities (stock split, etc.)
    Bankruptcies
    Litigation
AkzoNobel employees becoming aware of information which might be price sensitive with respect to AkzoNobel’s stock have to make sure that such information is treated strictly confidentially, and not disclosed to any AkzoNobel colleagues or to third parties other than on a strict need-to- know-basis. In the case of disclosure to third parties (e.g. advisors to AkzoNobel), disclosure is only permitted if such third parties, by law or contract, are bound by appropriate non-disclosure and non-use restrictions. In addition, potentially price sensitive information pertaining to AkzoNobel’s stock must be brought promptly to the attention of the AkzoNobel disclosure committee, which will advise the Board of Management on the need for public disclosure. Only the Board of Management will decide on such disclosure. In case of doubt, seek contact with the Chairman of the disclosure committee. For practical purposes, it is noted that the same obligations apply to the securities of a third party with respect to which AkzoNobel employees have inside information.
Any violations or unintended deviations from this directive must be reported without delay to the Chairman of the disclosure committee.
Corporate identity
To ensure a consistent and effective corporate identity approach worldwide, the rules published in the AkzoNobel corporate identity manual should be strictly adhered to. It should also be noted that these rules are different for certain product groups, companies and business units.
Any deviations from the corporate identity rules must be submitted to the AkzoNobel corporate communications department for approval before being implemented.
Protecting AkzoNobel’s intellectual property
AkzoNobel has acquired and developed valuable intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrighted works, and trade secrets (e.g. confidential technical or business information). Employees have a responsibility to protect these assets.
Management may choose to protect inventions or creative expressions through patents, trademark registrations, or copyright. The transfer of patents, trademarks, or copyrighted works is subject to management approval and contractual safeguards.
Employees should only disclose confidential information on a need-to-know basis, and take measures to avoid unauthorized disclosure, e.g. by securing access to confidential company records. Disclosing confidential information to third parties is subject to management approval and a non-disclosure agreement. Ideas or confidential information from third parties should not be received or used unless the appropriate safeguards are in place.
AkzoNobel Legal & IP must be involved in any transfer or dispute related to intellectual property. In any event, no statement regarding the validity, scope, or enforceability of intellectual property rights should be made without the involvement of AkzoNobel Legal & IP.
Internet use /
IT code of conduct
As a general rule, all IT-related resources and facilities are provided only for internal use and/or business-related matters, not for personal use. IT facilities which have been provided to employees should never be used for personal gain or profit, should not be misused during work time, and remain the property of AkzoNobel. Disclosure or dissemination of confidential or proprietary information regarding AkzoNobel, its products, or its customers outside the official communi- cation structures is strictly prohibited.
IT-related resources and facilities should not be used in any way that is unethical or illegal, or that could embarrass, defame, misrepresent, or convey an unjust or unfavorable impression of AkzoNobel or its business affairs, employees, suppliers, customers, competitors, or stakeholders. Unau- thorized access to information and information systems is prohibited; access must be authorized by the owners of the information and in line with the user’s job description.
Information systems can be secured by personal passwords and/or additional authentication means like hardware tokens; users must use these in a responsible way, keeping them personal and securing them against misuse. Any installation, change, removal, or personal use of software provided by AkzoNobel or available on AkzoNobel information systems must be authorized and managed by the information management organization or a delegated party.
In order to prevent theft, loss, or unauthorized use of information and systems, a user has to take measures to ensure the physical security of hardware provided (such as laptops, phones, tokens or USB sticks). To protect the availability of company data, users have to secure relevant business information in a timely manner, by making back-ups or storing data on network drives.
Information security-related incidents, or violation of infor- mation security principles, must be reported to the local IT helpdesk or information security contact. Possible evidence should not be tampered with. Every employee of AkzoNobel is required to be familiar with, and to comply with, the information security rules and procedures applicable to his or her specific department and site, as communicated by the local information security contact.
AkzoNobel reserves the right to review the activities performed by the user using company-provided IT facilities. In such cases, line management will be asked for authorization, local employee representatives will be informed where applicable, and local law will be observed at all times.
Business travel
Safety while traveling
The safety of employees while on a business trip is of vital importance to AkzoNobel. The company publishes an updated list of countries where travel may be hazardous for health or security reasons, and encourages the traveler and his/ her supervisor to exercise good judgment when determining whether travel to a high-risk area is necessary.
Combining business trips with personal matters
It is not permitted to combine business trips with a vacation, or to take along a spouse, partner, relative, or friend without the prior written authorization from the general manager of the business or service unit.
Air travel
Continental flights
Continental flights are generally to be made in the lowest available class. Managers of business units, service units and country organizations are free to issue guidelines to allow business class for flights with a duration of more than six consecutive hours.
Intercontinental flights
Business class or equivalent is the highest class allowed. Exceptions to this rule require prior approval from the responsible Board member.
 Hotels
AkzoNobel has contracted a number of preferred hotel chains in major cities where AkzoNobel regularly conducts business. Travelers must use these preferred hotels when available.
Travel by own car
A private car can only be used for a business trip if the own- er’s car insurance is adequate. The maximum distance for a business trip with a private car is 500km one way, and the costs will not exceed the lowest possible airfare and/or high- speed train fare, depending on the destination. Moreover, personal safety has to be taken into account at all times.
Train
For travel by train, tickets can be booked first class.
Reference
The AkzoNobel business travel website (part of the purchasing portal website on the intranet) provides most travel information. Additional information is available from AkzoNobel global travel management at AkzoNobel sourcing in the Netherlands.
Security
The Board of Management shall decide upon restrictions in business travel for all employees and/or measures to be taken to safeguard the safety of expatriates and their families in situations of political instability or other threats to public security (e.g. acts of terrorism).
The Secretary of the Board of Management shall commu- nicate such restrictions and/or measures to business unit managers, service unit managers, corporate staff, and managers of country organizations. These managers shall be responsible for further information in their organizations, and for the implementation of measures.
Substance abuse
Substance abuse can have devastating consequences in general, at any work place and especially at a production site. Therefore the use of any illegal drugs on AkzoNobel premises is strictly forbidden. Illegal drugs include all drugs except prescribed and over-the-counter drugs that have been legally obtained and used only for the purpose for which they were intended.
AkzoNobel strongly encourages a business environment free of alcohol, and on many AkzoNobel sites the use of alcoholic beverages is banned altogether. Management can allow the moderate consumption of alcohol for internal or external events in accordance with local customs and practices.
Employees who violate this policy may be subject to disciplinary action.
AkzoNobel will attempt to help employees with drug-related problems. The nature of that help may vary, and will also require the cooperation of the concerned employee.
Alfa
Region: GRULAC
Country: Mexico
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

CODE OF ETHICS
Guiding Principles
ALFA´s Code of Ethics reflects the company’s philosophy and includes the
following principles:
1.  Develop and perform all business activities with integrity.
2.  Respect human dignity and the rights of all employees through honest and fair treatment.
3.  Protect the health and safety of employees and the surrounding communities regarding the company´s operations.
4.  Avoid any kind of discrimination, harassment, threat or abuse towards employees, and prohibit the use of child labor.
5.  Uphold the laws and regulations of all countries where the company has operations.
6.  Avoid corruption of any kind.
7.  Avoid situations which may create a conflict of interest between the company and employees.
8.  Protect and properly utilize company assets (tangible and intangible).
9.  Never use company assets for personal profit.
10. Accurately calculate, utilize and present all operating and financial information.
11. Protect the environment through the sustainable use of natural resources while developing and performing business activities.
12. Avoid the company’s participation and the use of its resources or images in political activities.
Al Hosn Gas
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: UAE
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

CODE OF ETHICS
General Business Principles & Ethics

1.  INTRODUCTION

1.1 What is the Code of Ethics?
This Code of Ethics sets the minimum behavioral standards for all persons who deal on behalf of or with Al Hosn Gas (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”). To this end, the Code of Ethics is an important part of the Company’s Corporate Governance Framework.

1.2 What does the Code of Ethics cover?
The Code of Ethics enumerates a set of key business principles that all persons dealing with the Company are expected to follow. It does not provide exhaustive information of every legal requirement, standard or policy. As such, each person should use this Code of Ethics as a general guideline and exercise good judgment with respect to its application in so far as it impacts their dealings with the Company.

1.3 Who must follow the Code of Ethics?
Every employee and officer (collectively “Employees”) of the Company must follow the Code of Ethics including contracted staff. Contractors or consultants who are the Company’s agents or working on Company’s behalf or in its name through outsourcing of services, processes or any business activity will also be required to fully comply with the Code of Ethics. In addition, Company’s vendors, contractors and service providers are expected to comply with the Code of Ethics to the extent that it applies to their business dealings with, or on behalf of the Company.
Persons occupying managerial positions in the Company are expected to not only be fully familiar with the contents of the Code of Ethics but also to lead by example. In addition they are expected to support the staff in raising awareness, ensuring compliance, and reporting any violations of the Code of Ethics through the appropriate  channels as set forth in this Code of Ethics.
Company Employees and external parties who have business relations with the Company shall undertake to work together in meeting and, if possible, exceeding the expectations of the Code of Ethics and will regard the Code of Ethics as the minimum standard of business conduct in the Company.
Employees shall be fully committed to the Code of Ethics and apply it in their dealings with their fellow Employees and external parties. Employees shall report any violations or suspected violations in accordance with the reporting procedure provided for in this Code of Ethics, irrespective of whether such violation is explicitly addressed in this Code of Ethics or not.
This Code of Ethics shall be treated as a point of reference by Employees and third parties doing business with the Company.

1.4 How do I know whether I am complying with the Code of Ethics?
In ensuring compliance with the Code of Ethics, an Employee should consider the following questions and should act only if the answer to each question is a “Yes”:
    Is this action, legal, ethical and socially responsible?
    Does this action comply with both the spirit and the letter of this Code of Ethics?
    Is it clear that the Company would not be embarrassed or compromised if this action were to become known within the Company or publicly?
Employees should desist from acts that may appear or be perceived as inappropriate. An Employee seeking clarification or further guidance on the Code of Ethics should consult and seek advice from one or more of the following sources:
    Employee’s Supervisor
    Divisional Vice President
    A helpline phone +9712 654 2499 available during normal work hours
    Email addressed to Codeofethics@alhosngas.com.

1.5 Why it is needed to confirm the “Declaration of Understanding and Commercial Interest”?
The intent of this declaration is to affirm that all Employees:
(a) understand and comply with the Code of Ethics and
(b) declare commercial interests they may have in any company or establishment in the UAE.
All new Employees will also be required to make this declaration as part of their induction while existing Employees will be required to provide an update as and when a change in commercial interest occurs. A record of this declaration will be kept by the Human Capital division.

3.  PRINCIPLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1 Professional Ethics Commitment
The Company is committed to the highest ethical and moral standards and accountability. Employees at all levels are expected to share in this commitment and to lead by example in ensuring adherence to all appropriate regulations, procedures, practices, codes of conduct and the Company’s Core Values.
At a minimum, it is the Company’s expectations that all Employees act with:
    Integrity
    Professional Competence and Due Care
    Confidentiality

3.2 Responsibilities towards Employees
The Company believes in the equitable and fair application of policies governing its personnel and the protection of the rights and privileges of Employees under such policies. Hence, the Company is committed to:
a)  Providing  Employees  with  acceptably  safe  and  healthy  working  conditions  as  per  internationally recognized   industry   standards;
b)  Treating Employees fairly and equitably;
c)  Providing adequate training for its Employees and helping them to develop their skills and potential with particular attention to the training, development and deployment of UAE Nationals;
d)  Initiating and encouraging open communications and constructive dialogue within the Company in an atmosphere of mutual trust and understanding; and
e)  Investigating, in a fair manner and without discrimination, any reported incident of non-compliance with the Code of Ethics and taking actions in accordance with Company’s polices and applicable laws.

3.3 Responsibilities towards the Company
Employees shall always seek to uphold and enhance the standing of  the Company, and shall always act professionally  and  selflessly  by:
a)  Maintaining the highest possible standard of integrity (an attitude of truthfulness and reliability in thoughts, words and actions) in all their business relationships both internally within the Company and externally with the organizations in which they work;
b)  Sensitively honouring the values, rights and needs of others, which implies respect for human dignity and the uniqueness of the people unrestricted by social, economic status and personal attributes;
c)  Being ‘hard working, ‘devoted’ and ‘honest, and always seeking  the Company’s best interest;
d)  Updating their awareness of appropriate use of Information Technology;
e)  Playing the role of a trustee for the Company assets at their disposal. The property, either tangible or intangible, shall be used exclusively for conducting the Company’s business, or supporting it;
f)  Rejecting any business practice that might reasonably be deemed improper and never use their authority for direct or indirect personal gains;
g)  Not taking advantage of their own positions in the Company or information they may have for their personal benefit or for the benefit of any third party. Employees have a duty to advise their management when a conflict-of-interest arises, or is likely to arise due to any outside interest they, their relatives or friends may have.
h)  Enhancing the proficiency and stature of the Company by acquiring and maintaining the highest achievable  standards  of  ethical  behaviour;
i)  Optimizing the use of resources over which they have influence and for which they are responsible to provide the maximum benefit to the Company;
j)  Complying both with the letter and the spirit of:
i.  The UAE and Abu Dhabi laws, government policies and Company and its directives, including those related to preservation and use of natural resources and the protection of the environment;
ii. Company’s contractual obligations, including established policies, systems, procedures and guidelines as relevant to their area of work at all times.

3.4 Responsibilities towards Community
a)  The Company shall strive to be an industry leader in the areas of health, safety and environment and by
doing so, protect the environment, minimize pollution and seek continuous efficient improvements in the preservation of  natural resources of  the UAE.
b)  Short-term benefits shall not be pursued at the expense of long-term viability of the business and the wider community interests, with regard to health, safety and environment, educational support, cultural development and historical preservation programs.

3.5 Responsibilities towards Shareholders
a)  The Company shall strive for honesty, integrity and fairness in providing quality products and services and act in a manner that maximizes shareholder value.
b)  Shareholders’ satisfaction shall be achieved by building a long-term business relationships founded on trust and mutual benefit.
c)  The Company and its Employees shall effectively plan and execute the activities required so as to meet its Shareholders’ expectations and to achieve the goals set.

3.6 Responsibilities towards Business Partners
Company and its Employees shall aim for long-term business partnership based on trust and mutual benefit.
 
3.7 Responsibilities towards contractors, vendors, and others having business relationship with the Company
a)  Company shall strive for honesty, integrity, fairness and compliance with established tendering and contracting policies,  procedures  and  practices.
b)  Dealings that might prevent or obstruct the effective operation of fair competition are strictly prohibited.
c)  The Company shall encourage and support local contractors and vendors, particularly those based in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
d)  Long-term business relationships shall be built on trust and mutual benefit giving preference to competitively  priced  and  quality  goods  &  services.

4.  POLICIES
The following high-level policies are set in line with the foregoing principles and values:
Compliance
a)  Employees shall comply with all applicable laws, regulations and decisions of Abu Dhabi and the UAE.
b)  Employees shall comply with all rules provided for in this Code of Ethics.
c)  Employees shall comply with the Executive Council’s Decisions Nos. (1/A) & (1/B) – Session No. 35/1980, prohibiting certain commercial activities for UAE and non-UAE National employees [Attachment  1].
d)  Employees shall comply with SPC Circular No. (1/2001) prohibiting all companies and establishments in which employees of petroleum companies in Abu Dhabi Emirate hold a commercial interest as owner, partner, sponsor or local agent, from obtaining approval of SPC to deal in activities related to onshore and offshore oil and gas petroleum fields and installations. In case such an approval is obtained, it shall automatically be deemed as cancelled [Attachment 2].
e)  Employees shall at all times ensure that they do not participate in activities that will give rise to a “Conflict of Interest” situation. A Conflict of Interest occurs when an Employee’s personal activities or financial interests appear to or may influence the person’s ability to act in the best interests of the Company.
b)  It is every Employee’s responsibility to report to the management when a conflict of interest arises, or is likely to arise due to any outside interest they, or their relatives or friends, may have.
c)  When it is not easy to decide between ‘what is’ and ‘is not’ acceptable, advice shall be sought from the Employee’s immediate supervisor or manager and / or legal affairs or internal audits.
d)  It will be each Employee’s responsibility to renew / update this declaration as and when there is any change in his/her original declaration. A Conflict of Interest Register will be maintained by Human Capital Division to record all employee declarations.

4.3 Confidentiality of Information
 a) The confidentiality of information received by an Employee, in the course of his/her duty, shall be respected and should never be used for personal or any other party’s direct or indirect gain.
b)  An Employee shall not divulge to any third party, information received in the course of their employment with the Company without appropriate authority from a manager authorized to grant such approval to disclose information. Information shall be protected and safeguarded from loss, theft, manipulation or destruction.
c)  In the event of leaving the Company, Employees shall not use such information in any way that may harm the Company’s business interests or cause unfair competition amongst its business partners, contractors and vendors.
d)  Employee’s obligation to keep information confidential continues even after termination of employment.

4.4 Transparency of Financial Transactions
a)  The Company shall make and retain books, records and accounts that, in reasonable details, accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions and conform to applicable legal requirements and accounting  principles
b)  All dealings and transactions undertaken on behalf of the Company between Employees and contractors / vendors shall be kept transparent and properly recorded (with all supporting documents) in accordance with the Company’s established policies and procedures, such that the flow of information can be traced from ‘start-to-finish’.
c)  Accountability for assets shall be maintained, and access to asset records shall be permitted only with the required authorization. The Finance division shall be responsible for maintaining all asset accounting recordings under the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer.
d)  Employees shall not pass any information that is false, deceptive or create unreasonable expectations.
e)  Company financial information is strictly confidential and should not be divulged except as authorized by Company’s policies.

4.5 Information Management
a)  Communication and IT systems are provided to employees to conduct authorized business on behalf of the Company. They are valuable tools representing assets and systems which belong to the Company and must be protected by all Employees.
b)  Reasonable use of communication and IT systems for purpose other than the Company’s business (e.g. personal emails or internet access) must remain reasonable and limited, and always be in line with applicable laws and regulations.
c)  E-mail systems are not entirely secure and may be susceptible to interception. The Company may, in certain circumstances, have a need to examine e-mails and therefore reserve the right to view, read and copy any email communications.
d)  E-mails also create permanent records potentially committing the Company. They should therefore be used carefully when dealing with third parties.
e)  In accordance with information security requirements, employees must keep all passwords confidential, and may not download any software or data that is inappropriate for business.
f)  Employees must take precautionary measures to protect company information and data from accidental or unauthorized disclosure, misuse, improper alteration or destruction.
g)  Visitors to the Company’s property should not be left unescorted or unattended especially in sensitive areas. When on Company property, Employees must wear their identification badge and request identification from others if  not readily recognized.

4.6 Intellectual Property
a)  There must be compliance to the laws and regulations governing intellectual and industrial property. Please contact Legal Affairs if you have any queries in this regard.
b)  Intellectual Property can range from strategies, business plans, information protected by the Company trademarks or copyrights etc and are restricted by applicable intellectual property laws.
c)  To safeguard the Company’s Intellectual Property from being reproduced or misused, Employees must ensure it is affixed with or identified by logo or copyright symbols. All Employees must respect the proprietary right of others including all business providers. Unless the Intellectual Property owner’s specific prior consent is obtained, employee may not copy, distribute, perform, display, or modify third party copyrighted materials.
d)  Any intellectual inventions made by Employees during their employment with the Company and related to the Company’s business shall be the property of the Company unless otherwise approved in writing by the Company’s management.


4.7 Gifts and Entertainment
a)  Gift and Entertainment – Defined as anything of value, including promotional issues that an Employee or someone in his/her family or household, or a person with whom the Employee has a close personal relationship either gives to or receives from a business provider. Entertainment includes events that Employee or any Family member attends or is invited to attend, irrespective of whether they are accompanied by the business provider or stakeholder/related party.
b)  Employees shall not give, solicit or accept gifts, donations, commissions, loans, favours, bribes or anything else of value from or to any party, which does business or seeks to do business with the Company. This excludes gifts and entertainment received by the Employees from the Company, shareholders or any of  ADNOC’s group companies within the normal course of  business.
c)  It is customary in the UAE to distribute gifts during special occasions such as Eid, New Year’s Day, UAE National Day etc. Such exchanges are permitted by the Company only if the items exchanged are consumable items such as flowers, chocolates, dates, stationary etc. For the avoidance of doubt, such exchanges are permitted by the Company only if all of the following conditions are met:
i.  They are distributed on special nationally recognized occasions
ii. They are consumable in nature with finite life
iii.    The value of the proposed gift does not exceed AED 500.
d)  Entertainment could be considered acceptable if the following conditions are met:
    Offered or accepted in the normal course of business;
    Attended by both a Company and a business provider’s employee and be an occasion which is business related;
    Not unduly lavish (e.g., charging more than would be reasonable or customary for a business dinner or lunch);
    At a venue and conducted in a manner that does not violate other provisions of this Code of Ethics or harm the Company’s reputation.
    The frequency and scale of entertainment given or received shall be kept transparent and properly recorded  in  accordance  with  Company  standards.
    Line manager’s approval/concurrence shall be sought prior to an Employee accepting such an invitation where it is difficult for the Employee to decide. Entertainment shall be limited to business meals or other functions or events that have been approved by the management of the Company.
e)  Regardless of value, the appearance of influence must always be considered when accepting any business courtesy, such as a gift or entertainment. For any type of business courtesy, under no circumstances should an Employee use his/her own money or resources to do something that is prohibited with the Company’s resources. In addition, when an Employee offers gifts or entertainment to third parties consistent with this Code of Ethics, he/she must ensure these courtesies are properly reflected in the Company’s financial records.
f)  Employees should return back all gifts except those exempted by (c) above and all proposed entertainment that do not meet the criteria listed above, with an explanation that such gifts and entertainments do not meet the Company standards. In addition, an Employee should report such offers using the helpline number +9712 654 2499 or email Codeofethics@alhosngas.com for recording in the Gifts and Entertainment Register.
g)  Gifts and Entertainment Register: Employees should register all offers of Gifts (including the ones exempted under (c) above) and Entertainment – whether accepted or not – in the register maintained by the Legal Affairs department.

4.8 Communication
The Company shall endeavour to entertain open communication by disclosing as much information as possible about its activities to interested legitimate parties subject to ‘confidentiality and accuracy of information’ principle and protect the Company’s interest and those of the third parties.

4.9 Fraud and Theft
a)  Employees shall exercise due care, protect and maintain the assets made available to them.
b)  Employees must exercise due care to ensure that Company’s assets are protected against theft, loss or abuse;
c)  The Company will promptly investigate and where appropriate prosecute, reported incidents of fraud, theft or other improper acts.

4.10    Investigation
a)  Employees are required to fully co-operate with any appropriate internal or Government investigation.
b)  From time to time, the Company might conduct internal audits and investigations of business related matters or Employee conduct. Employees are required to co-operate in these internal audits and investigations.
c)  Employees who fail to co-operate or who obstruct these investigations will be subject to disciplinary action.

5.  VIOLATIONS & REPORTING

5.1 It is the responsibility of every Employee to report any dishonest or illegal practice and/or violation of the Code of Ethics.

5.2 Employees shall report any violations or suspected violations with relevant details through an Internal Helpline telephone or email. The internal Helpline phone number is +9712 654 2499 and the email address is Codeofethics@alhosngas.com. Reported violations will be treated with utmost confidentiality, recorded in writing and handled in accordance with the Company’s investigation guidelines.

5.3 Malicious or false reports will be investigated, and will face disciplinary measures.

5.4 The Company will take all reasonable measures to maintain the confidentiality of any Employee reporting a suspected violation.  No employee will be retaliated against for any report made in good faith.

5.5 If Violation of the Code of Ethics is proven on investigation, the Company will initiate disciplinary proceedings in accordance with Company’s policies, and where appropriate, criminal proceedings in accordance with the applicable Laws.

6.  ATTACHMENTS
ATTACHMENT 1: ExECUTIVE COUNCIL’S DECISIONS ON RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL
ACTIVITIES (Circular Nos. 4 & 5 dated 18th Sept 1980)
Executive Council’s Decisions Nos. (1/A) and (1/B) – Session No. (35/80) concerning certain works prohibited to UAE and Non-UAE National Employees and Staff
1st The UAE National Employees and Staff
a.  The UAE National employee or staff is prohibited to have a direct or indirect interest in works or contracts related to the works of  the company he is working for.
b.  The company for which the UAE National employee or staff is working is not allowed to buy any items from him or entrust him with the execution of contractual works. However, it is allowed to buy books of his authorship or to entrust him to undertake artistic works such as painting, sculpture and photography or buy such artistic works from him.
2nd The Non-UAE National Employees and Staff
a.  The non-UAE National employee or staff is prohibited to practice any commercial activity.
b.  The non-UAE National employee or staff is prohibited to have a direct or indirect interest in any governmental  works  or  contracts.
c.  The company for which the non-UAE National employee or staff is working is not allowed to buy any items from him or entrust him with the execution of contractual works. However, it is allowed to buy books of his authorship or to entrust him to undertake artistic works such as painting, sculpture and photography or buy such artistic works from him.
Signed By
The Secretary General of the Executive Council
ATTACHMENT 2 : BUSINESS ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED TO PETROLEUM COMPANIES’ STAFF IN THE EMIRATE OF ABU DHABI (Circular No. 1/2001 dated 17th  Jan 2001)
Based on the decisions of the Executive Council of Abu Dhabi Emirate No. (1/A) and (1/B) of Session No. 35/80 prohibiting National and Non-National staff and employees from performing certain business activities, the following has been decided:
Item 1:
All companies and establishments in which employees of petroleum companies in Abu Dhabi emirate hold commercial interest as owner, partner, sponsor or local agent, shall be prohibited from obtaining SPC’s approval to deal in activities related to onshore and offshore oil and gas petroleum fields and installations.
Item 2:
In case such approval mentioned above is obtained for any reason, it shall automatically be deemed as cancelled. Item 3:
The above decision shall be effective from the date hereof and all parties concerned are requested to adhere to its contents.
Signed By
The Secretary General of the SPC
 




ALTANA
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Preamble

The trust and confidence of our business partners, customers, shareholders, the authorities and the public in the responsible conduct of all companies within the ALTANA Group and their employees in accordance with the law are of key importance to the image and success of our company. It is the conduct of every single individual that counts. In particular, executive staff have a model function in this respect, with a high level of social and ethical competence being expected of them.

In view of the fact that responsible conduct in accordance with the law can be taken for granted, this Code of Conduct includes no major new rules but illustrates the legal and ethical requirements as to the behaviour of every single employee and stipulates rules of behaviour each of us should take into consideration in the performance of our daily work. This Code of Conduct applies to the employees of all companies within the ALTANA Group. If rules are specified in separate guidelines for individual divisions or companies, such guidelines apply without restriction in addition to this Code of Conduct.

1.  Basic principles

Responsibility towards humankind and nature, fairness and tolerance are the basic values of our company. Therefore, in the performance of his/her daily work, each employee shall

–   behave in accordance with the law and the principles of ethics,
–   be loyal towards his/her company and the ALTANA Group,
–   act professionally, fairly and reliably in all business relations,
–   treat all employees, customers and business partners fairly, politely and respectfully,
–   reasonably consider the interests of customers and business partners, the authorities, the public and the environment,
–   respect and observe other cultures and cultural boundary conditions,
–   refrain from any inappropriate form of discrimination,
–   handle any risks responsibly and transparently.

We expect of each employee that he (or she) requests advice and assistance from his/her superiors or the responsible specialist department in the event of doubts regarding his/her own conduct or if he/she suspects legally doubtful occurrences in his/her area of work. Openness and trust are the most efficient means of avoiding or limiting the threat of damages to the company based on misbehaviour.
 
2.  Fair competition - no prohibited cartel agreements

It is the very purpose of antitrust law to ensure free and fair competition which is the basis of efficiency, innovation and economic development. Any infringements upon antitrust provisions are subject to high penalties, and sometimes even prison sentences. Whether or not a behaviour is unlawful under antitrust legislation must be carefully examined on a case-to-case basis. However, the following types of behaviour are generally illegal:

–   Agreements between competitors with respect to prices or the division of areas, customers or customer groups or to production quantities,
–   retail price maintenance for distribution partners,
–   abuse of a dominant market position.

The very appearance of unlawful cartel agreements must be avoided. No confidential information may be exchanged on prices and pending price changes or customer/ supplier relationships in discussions with competitors.

Other circumstances, such as exclusivity agreements or non-competition agreements, may also be relevant under antitrust law. In cases of doubt, you should contact the legal department in order to have the relevance and admissibility of a measure examined with respect to antitrust provisions.

3.  Safety and environmental protection

The avoidance and reliable control of risks for other people and the environment is an essential part of responsible conduct. This applies to every business area of our Group, in particular, however, to production, storage, product development and product monitoring.

Compliance with all safety regulations is absolutely essential regardless of whether they are specified by law, issued by the responsible authorities, or regulated by internal corporate guidelines. Even though one may think that a potential risk can be safely controlled or if safety regulations are regarded as onerous, this should never give rise to negligence. Security regulations are to be applied rigorously at all times in your own interest and also in the interests of your colleagues and the company as a whole. Each employee shares the joint responsibility for his/her working environment. Employees have to be thoroughly instructed, trained and monitored.

Active collaboration and awareness of risks by the employees are also expected. This also applies to risks which may arise as a result of using a product or in combination with another product, for example. Employees should immediately report any risks, whether already identified or only considered as potential, to the responsible department. Appropriate warning notices must be attached in the case of products, if necessary.

Environmentally conscious behaviour is not only an entrepreneurial obligation for us but also an important requirement for maintaining our economic efficiency and competitiveness.
 
Strict approval requirements normally apply to the erection and operation of chemical plants. Any unauthorised operation, intentionally or negligently exceeding any limit values specified in an operating license or an unapproved discharge of materials into the soil, air or water may result in criminal prosecution of the responsible employees.

Safety must be ensured when handling polluting materials and products, during their transport, loading and unloading, storage and chemical transformation. If such materials are nonetheless released or if a similar accident occurs, the persons in the company responsible for environmental protection must be notified immediately.

4.  Corruption and granting advantages

Our products and services convince through performance, quality and prices.

No personal advantages may be offered or granted, neither directly nor indirectly, in the form of money or otherwise, to a customer’s or client’s employees in connection with the preferential treatment of a company of the ALTANA Group regarding the placement or execution of an order.

Likewise, no personal advantages may be requested or accepted for a preferential treatment in connection with the placement or execution of an order with or by a supplier or other third parties.

All contracts should be made in writing, on principle. It must be ensured that the performance and consideration are described in sufficient detail, are reasonable and proportionate, and that no unjustified personal advantages are granted by the contract.

As a rule, no personal advantages may be offered or granted to officials, including officials from foreign states. Bribery of public officials is subject to criminal prosecution worldwide. Countries such as Germany and the U.S.A. also punish bribery of foreign officials.

Exceptions apply only to the acceptance and offering of customary occasional or advertising gifts and to gifts which correspond to custom and politeness in a country.

Entertaining and inviting customers and business partners in the customary scope is generally permitted.

However, when accepting or offering gifts or entertaining and inviting guests, it should always be ensured that a socially customary and appropriate financial scope is not exceeded. The very appearance of a conflict of interests should be avoided. Special caution shall be applied when inviting government officials.
 5. Insider law

Insider law prohibits the exploitation of insider information in order to achieve direct or indirect personal gain by the purchase or sale of securities or other financial instruments including options. Unauthorized transmission of insider information is also illegal. Insider business may have serious criminal consequences.

Insider information refers to facts relating to ALTANA or a company of the ALTANA Group which are not publicly known and public knowledge of which may have a material influence on the stock exchange or market price of certain securities. This may, for example, refer to proposed acquisitions, strategic alliances or major contracts.

Employees who possess such insider information on ALTANA or other companies with whom ALTANA is considering a major transaction, for example, are not allowed to purchase or sell their shares or other financial instruments relating to shares of ALTANA or such other company, and must not transmit this information to third parties. This applies until the respective information is no longer relevant or until it becomes public knowledge.

6.  Discrimination

All employees have the right to fair, polite and respectful treatment by their superiors, employees and colleagues.

No one may be harassed, discriminated or, without justified reason, placed at a disadvantage on account of his/her race, colour of his/her skin, nationality, origin, sex, religious faith or philosophy of life, political inclinations, age, his/her physical constitution, his/her outward appearance or his/her sexual preferences.

Every employee is obliged to respect the personal sphere of other employees. Sexual harassment and the use of any type of force shall be illegal.

7.  Conflict of interests - private activities

Each employee must inform his/her superior and the responsible personnel division of any intended acceptance of secondary remunerative employment or the intention to undertake entrepreneurial work. The same applies to the intended acceptance of a position in another company.

Private activities in associations, political parties or any other social or political institutions are welcomed by ALTANA but they must not impair the performance of business duties or responsibilities. An employee shall not refer to his/her function in the company in connection with private expressions of opinions in public.

Conflicts of interest between the business duties of an employee and his personal interests are to be avoided. Conduct in the private sector which may be contrary to or have an adverse effect on the interests of the company should also be avoided.
 
Suppliers and other contractors receiving regular or repeated orders from the company shall not receive any orders for private purposes from those employees that may influence the placement of orders to such suppliers or contractors.

8.  Protection of company property and business secrets

Business secrets and other confidential information must be treated in confidence and must be protected from coming to the knowledge of third parties. Employees who have access to business secrets and confidential information relating to companies of the ALTANA Group must not disclose the same to third parties (including members of the family and friends), nor should they use this information for purposes other than business.

In the preparation of documents and data carriers, it should be taken into consideration that any written piece of paper and every data carrier could fall into the hands of third parties and could be used against our company. This should be taken into account when drawing up documents.

9.  Compliance with the Code of Conduct and appropriate controls

A copy of this Code of Conduct is being sent to each employee. It will also be made available on the ALTANA Intranet. The management of the Group shall cover the Code of Conduct in employee training sessions. Key issues, such as cartel law and corruption, will be dealt with by the ALTANA AG training and education programs for the management and a group of employees to be defined.

In addition, the management of the companies belonging to the Group shall monitor compliance with the Code of Conduct and perform and support any monitoring activities in cooperation with the ALTANA Compliance department.

It is not sufficient merely to take note of this Code of Conduct. Rather, each employee is called upon to examine his/her own conduct on the basis of the above yardsticks and to clarify for himself/herself the areas of activity in which improvements can be made.
 
10. Legal information relating to the Code of Conduct

The present Code of Conduct is a Group directive that stipulates binding rules for the management and all employees working in the Group. It will be additionally introduced as a corporate guideline by each member of the Group.

Responsible conduct in accordance with the law is expected from the management and each employee. Breaches of the law and breaches of this Code of Conduct  will not be tolerated. As a rule, they also constitute breaches of duties laid down in the relevant employment contract and may be subject to considerable sanctions. In the event of a breach of the law and breaches of this Code of Conduct, employees have to expect to be reprimanded, confronted with claims for reimbursement of damages, and even termination of their contract of employment in especially severe cases. In the event of breaches of criminal law or administrative rules, the company also reserves the right to report the employee to the criminal prosecution authorities.

Anyone gaining knowledge of a breach of law or a breach of the present Code of Conduct, and anyone who has reasonable suspicion of such a breach, can
protect the company by informing his/her superior, the personnel department or the management. The ALTANA Compliance Hotline is also ready to receive reports
on illegal behaviour. In most cases, this will also help the employees who have committed the breach because the company will be frequently enabled to take measures to avoid or mitigate a possible damage.

Even if an employee believes that a breach of the law or a breach of the present Code of Conduct will be of short-term economic benefit to the company, this belief cannot justify non-compliant behaviour. In addition, there is always a risk that such a breach may result in much higher long-term damage to the company. Observation of and compliance with the laws, requirements of the authorities and company guidelines as well as ethical and responsible conduct are a foundation of the long- term success of ALTANA.

Wesel, on September 19, 2008

ALTANA AG

The Management Board
American Association for Clinical Chemistry (Code of Conduct)
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Preamble: Members of the American Association for Clinical Chemistry endorse the following principles of ethical conduct in their profession, including clinical procedures, research and development, teaching, management, administration, and other forms of professional service.
 Principles of Ethical Conduct
 I shall strive to:
    conduct myself with integrity and honesty;
    avoid scientific and professional misconduct including, but not limited to fraud, fabrication, plagiarism, concealment, inappropriate omission of information, and making false or deceptive statements;
    achieve quality in the product(s) of my professional endeavors, including validity and reliability of test results, interpretive opinions, publications, and scientific research;
    keep confidential information obtained or received in the course of my professional activities and avoid misuse of any such information;
    enhance and expand my professional qualifications, know-ledge, and skills, and represent them fairly;
    safeguard the safety and welfare of patients, employees, co-workers, the public, and the environment; and
    avoid, or promptly resolve, actual or potential conflict(s) of interest.

American Association for Clinical Chemistry (Code of Ethics)
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Preamble:
Members of the American Association for Clinical Chemistry endorse the following principles of ethical conduct in their profession, including clinical procedures, research and development, teaching, management, administration, and other forms of professional service:

Principles of Ethical Conduct

I will:
1.  Uphold standards of professionalism, be honest in all professional endeavours, and maintain a high level of personal integrity.
2.  Avoid scientific and professional misconduct including, but not limited to fraud, fabrication, plagiarism, concealment, inappropriate omission of information, and making false or deceptive statements.
3.  Report any health care professional who engages in fraud or deception or whose deficiency in character or competence jeopardizes patient care or other personnel.
4.  Maintain a high level of quality in the product(s) of my professional endeavours, including validity and reliability of test results, interpretive opinions, publications, and scientific research.
5.  Respect the privacy and confidentiality of protected health information encountered during the course of my professional activities in accordance with legal and ethical obligations.
6.  Continuously strive to augment my professional qualifications, knowledge, and skills, and present them accurately.
7.  Promote the safety and welfare of patients, employees, co-workers, colleagues, the public, and the environment.
8.  Avoid, or promptly disclose and work to resolve, actual or potential conflicts of interest.
9.  Encourage open and honest discussion among physicians, other healthcare providers and/or facility managers regarding disclosure to patients of information about medical errors, if such information is material to any patient's well-being.
10. Comply with relevant laws and seek to change them when they are contrary to the best interests of the patient.

American Chemical Society
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

The Chemist's Code of Conduct
CHEMISTS ACKNOWLEDGE RESPONSIBILITIES TO:
The Public
Chemists have a professional responsibility to serve the public interest and welfare and to further
knowledge of science. Chemists should actively be concerned with the health and welfare of coworkers,
consumers, and the community. Public comments on scientific matters should be made
with care and precision, without unsubstantiated exaggerated or premature statements.
The Science of Chemistry
Chemists should seek to advance chemical science, understand the limitations of their knowledge,
and respect the truth. Chemists should ensure that their scientific contribution, and those of their
collaborators are thorough, accurate, and unbiased in design, implementation, and presentation..
The Profession
Chemists should remain current with developments in their field, share ideas and information,
keep accurate and complete laboratory records, maintain integrity in all conduct and publications,
and give due credit to the contributions of others. Conflicts of interest and scientific misconduct,
such as fabrication, and plagiarism, are incompatible with this Code.
The Employer
Chemist should promote and protect the legitimate interests of their employers, perform work
honestly and competently, fulfill obligations, and safeguard proprietary information.
Employees
Chemist, as employers, should treat subordinates with respect for their professionalism and
concern for their well-being, and provide them with a safe, congenial working environment, fair
compensation, and proper acknowledgement of their scientific contributions.
Students
Chemists should regard the tutelage of students as trust conferred by society for the promotion of
the student's learning and professional development. Each student should be treated respectfully
and without exploitations.
Associates
Chemists should treat associates with respect, regardless of the level their formal education,
encourage them, learn with them, share ideas honestly, and give credit for their contributions.
Clients
Chemists should serve clients faithfully and incorruptibly, respect confidentiality, advise honestly,
and charge fairly.
The Environment
Chemists should understand and anticipate the environmental consequences of their work.
Chemists have responsibility to avoid pollution and to protect the environment.
American Institute of Chemical Engineers
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Members of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers shall uphold and advance the integrity, honor and dignity of the engineering profession by:
♣   Being honest and impartial and serving with fidelity their employers, their clients, and the public;
♣   Striving to increase the competence and prestige of the engineering profession;
♣   Using their knowledge and skill for the enhancement of human welfare.
To Achieve these Goals, Members shall:
♣   Hold paramount the safety, health and welfare of the public and protect the environment in performance of their professional duties.
♣   Formally advise their employers or clients (and consider further disclosure, if warranted) if they perceive that a consequence of their duties will adversely affect the present or future health or safety of their colleagues or the public.
♣   Accept responsibility for their actions, seek and heed critical review of their work and offer objective criticism of the work of others.
♣   Issue statements or present information only in an objective and truthful manner.
♣   Act in professional matters for each employer or client as faithful agents or trustees, avoiding conflicts of interest and never breaching confidentiality.
♣   Treat fairly and respectfully all colleagues and co-workers, recognizing their unique contributions and capabilities.
♣   Perform professional services only in areas of their competence.
♣   Build their professional reputations on the merits of their services.
♣   Continue their professional development throughout their careers, and provide opportunities for the professional development of those under their supervision.
♣   Never tolerate harassment.
♣   Conduct themselves in a fair, honorable and respectful manner.

American Institute of Chemical Engineers (1913)
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

ARTICLE I.-PURPOSE OF THE CODE: To define
the rules of professional conduct and ethics for the
members of the Institute.
ARTICLE II.-THE ISSTITUTE EXPECTS OF ITS
MEMBERS:
I. That in all their relations, they shall be guided
by the highest principles of honor.
2 . The upholding before the public at all times of
the dignity of the chemical profession generally and
the reputation of the Institute, protecting its members
from misrepresentation.
3. Personal helpfulness and fraternity between its
members and toward the profession generally.
4. The avoidance and discouragement of sensationalism,
exaggeration and unwarranted statements,
In making the first publication concerning inventions
or other chemical advances, they should be made
through chemical societies and technical publications.
5 . The refusal to undertake for compensation work
which they believe will be unprofitable to clients
without first advising said clients as to the improbability
of successful results.
6. The upholding of the principle that unreasonably
low charges for professional work tend toward inferior
and unreliable work, especially if such charges are
set at a low figure for advertising purposes.
7 . The refusal to lend their names to any questionable
enterprise.
8. Conservatism in all estimates, reports, testimony,
etc., especially in connection with the promotion of
business enterprises.
9. That they shall not engage in any occupation
which is obviously contrary to law or public welfare.
IO. When a chemical engineer undertakes for
others work in connection with which he may make
improvements, inventions, plans, designs or other
records, he shall preferably enter into a written agreement
regarding their ownership. In a case where
an agreement is not made or does not cover a point
at issue, the following rules shall apply:
a-If a chemical engineer uses information which
is not common knowledge or public property,
but which he obtains from a client or employer,
any results in the form of plans, designs or other
records shall not be regarded as his property,
but the property of his client or employer.
b-If a chemical engineer uses only his own
knowledge or information or data, which by prior
publication or otherwise are public property,
and obtains no chemical engineering data from
a client or employer except performance specifications
or routine information, then the results
in the form of inventions, plans, designs or other
records should be regarded as the property of
the engineer, and the client or employer should be
entitled to their use only in the case for which
the engineer was retained.
c-All work and results accomplished by the
chemical engineer in the form of inventions,
plans, designs or other records, or outside of the
field for which a client or employer has retained
him, should be regarded as the chemical engineer's
property.
d-When a chemical engineer participates in
the building of apparatus from designs supplied
him by a client, the designs remain the property
of the client and should not be duplicated by the without express permission.
e-Chemical engineering data or ,information
which a chemical engineer obtains from his client
or employer or which he creates as a result of
such information must be considered confidential
by the engineer; and while he is justified in using
such data or information in his own practice as
forming part of his professional experience, its
publication without express permission is improper.
j-Designs, data, records and notes made by
an employee and referring to his employer's work,
should be regarded as his employer's property.
g-A client does not acquire any exclusive
right to plans or apparatus made or constructed
by a consulting chemical engineer except for the
specific case for which they were made.
11. A chemical engineer cannot honorably accept
compensation, financial or otherwise, from more than
one interested party, without the consent of all parties;
and whether consulting, designing, installing or operating,
must not accept compensation directly or indirectly
from parties dealing with his client or employer.
When called upon to decide on the use of inventions,
apparatus, processes, etc., in which he has a financial
interest, he should make his status in the matter
clearly understood before engagement.
12. The chemical engineer should endeavor at all
times to give credit for work to those who, so far as
his knowledge goes, are the real authors of such work.
13. Undignified, sensational or misleading advertising
is not permitted.
14. Contracts made by chemical engineers should
be subject to the Code of Ethics unless otherwise agreed.
ARTICLE 111.-For the administration of this
Code of Ethics, a Committee on Ethics shall be appointed
by the president holding office at the time of
the adoption of this Code with the approval of the
Council, to consist of five members: one appointed
for five years, another for four years, another for
three years, another for two years, another for one
year, and thereafter, the president then holding office
shall appoint one member annually to serve for five
years and also fill such vacancies as may occur for an
unexpired term. All of these members shall be over
forty years of age. The Committee shall elect its own
chairman. The Committee on Ethics shall investigate
all complaints submitted to them bearing upon the
professional conduct of any member, and after a fair
opportunity to be heard has been given to the member
involved, shall report its findings to the Council,
whose action shall be final.
ARTICLE ~V.-AMENDMEP:\ TTASd ditions to or
modifications of this Code may be made according
to Article VI11 of the Constitution.

American Institute of Chemists
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

code of Ethics
Approved by the AIC Board of Directors, April 29, 1983
The profession of chemistry is increasingly important to the progress and the welfare of the community. The Chemist is frequently responsible for decision affecting the lives and fortunes of others. To protect the public and maintain the honor of the profession, the American Institute of Chemists has established the following rules of conduct.

It is the Duty of the Chemist
1. To uphold the law; not to engage in illegal work nor cooperate with anyone so engaged;
2. To avoid associating or being identified with any enterprise of questionable character;
3. To be diligent in exposing and opposing such errors and frauds as the Chemist's special
knowledge brings to light;
4. To sustain the institute and burdens of the community as a responsible citizen;
5. To work and act in a strict spirit of fairness to employers, clients, contractors, employees, and
in a spirit of personal helpfulness and fraternity toward other members of the chemical
profession;
6. To use only honorable means of competition for professional employment,; to advertise only in
a dignified and factual manner; to refrain from unfairly injuring, directly or indirectly, the
professional reputation, prospects, or business of a fellow Chemist, or attempting to supplant a
fellow chemist already selected for employment; to perform services for a client only at rates
that fairly reflect costs of equipment, supplies, and overhead expenses as well as fair personal
compensation;
7. To accept employment from more than one employer or client only when there is no conflict of
interest; to accept commission or compensation in any form from more than one interested
party only with the full knowledge and consent of all parties concerned;
8. To perform all professional work in a manner that merits full confidence and trust; to be
conservative in estimates, reports, and testimony, especially if these are related to the
promotion of a business enterprise or the protection of the public interest, and to state
explicitly any known bias embodies therein; to advise client or employer of the probability of
success before undertaking a project;
9. To review the professional work of other chemists, when request, fairly and in confidence,
whether they are:
a. subordinates or employees
b. authors of proposals for grants or contracts
c. authors of technical papers, patents, or other publications
d. involved in litigation;
10. To advance the profession by exchanging general information and experience with fellow
Chemists and by contributing to the work of technical societies and to the technical press when
such contribution does not conflict with the interests of a client or employer; to announce
inventions and scientific advances first in this way rather than through the public press; to
ensure that credit for technical work is given to its actual authors;
11. To work for any client or employer under a clear agreement, preferable in writing, as to the
ownership of data, plans, improvements, inventions, designs, or other intellectual property
developed or discovered while so employed, understanding that in the absence of written
agreement:
a. results based on information from the client or employer, not obtainable elsewhere, are
the property of the client or employer
b. results based on knowledge or information belonging to the Chemists, or publicly available,
are the property of the Chemist, the client or employer being entitled to their use only in
the case or project for which the Chemist was retained
c. all work and results outside of the field for which the Chemist was retained or employed,
and not using time or facilities belonging to a client or employer, are the property of the
Chemist
12. special data or information provided by a client or employer, or created by the Chemist and
belonging to the client or employer, must be treated as confidential, used only in general as a
part of the Chemist's professional experience, and published only after release by the client or
employer;
13. To report any infractions of these principles of professional conduct to the authorities
responsible for enforcement

American Oil Chemists Society
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics


Chemistry and its application by scientists, engineers, and technologists have for their prime objective the advancement of science and benefit of mankind. Accordingly, the Society expects each member:

1. to be familiar with the purpose and objectives of the Society as expressed in its Articles of Incorporation; to promote its aim actively; and to strive for self-improvement in said member’s profession;
2. to present conduct that at all times reflects dignity upon the profession of chemistry and engineering;
3. to use every honorable means to elevate the standards of the profession and extend its sphere of usefulness;
4. to keep inviolate any confidence that may be entrusted to said member in such member’s professional capacity;
5. to refuse participation in questionable enterprises and to refuse to engage in any occupation that is contrary to law or the public welfare;
6. to guard against unwarranted insinuations that reflect upon the character or integrity of other chemists and engineers.
American Society for Clinical Laboratory Science
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Preamble
The Code of Ethics of the American Society for Clinical Laboratory Science (ASCLS) sets forth the principles and standards by which clinical laboratory professionals practice their profession.

I. Duty to the Patient
Clinical laboratory professionals are accountable for the quality and integrity of the laboratory services they provide. This obligation includes maintaining individual competence in judgement and performance and striving to safeguard the patient from incompetent or illegal practice by others.
 
Clinical laboratory professionals maintain high standards of practice. They exercise sound judgment in establishing, performing and evaluating laboratory testing.
 
Clinical laboratory professionals maintain strict confidentiality of patient information and test results. They safeguard the dignity and privacy of patients and provide accurate information to other health care professionals about the services they provide.
 
II. Duty to Colleagues and the Profession
Clinical laboratory professionals uphold and maintain the dignity and respect of our profession and strive to maintain a reputation of honesty, integrity and reliability. They contribute to the advancement of the profession by improving the body of knowledge, adopting scientific advances that benefit the patient, maintaining high standards of practice and education, and seeking fair socioeconomic working conditions for members of the profession.
Clinical laboratory professionals actively strive to establish cooperative and respectful working relationships with other health care professionals with the primary objective of ensuring a high standard of care for the patients they serve.
 
III. Duty to Society
As practitioners of an autonomous profession, clinical laboratory professionals have the responsibility to contribute from their sphere of professional competence to the general well being of the community.
Clinical laboratory professionals comply with relevant laws and regulations pertaining to the practice of clinical laboratory science and actively seek, within the dictates of their consciences, to change those which do not meet the high standards of care and practice to which the profession is committed.
Amman Code of Conduct
Region: African Group
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Draft Language

Code of Conduct for the Practice of Chemistry 
in the Middle East and Northern Africa

Preamble
Chemistry, the discoveries of chemists, and chemical products are vital and beneficial to daily life−from life-saving medicines and increased agricultural productivity to safe and clean water supplies and a wide range of products that enhance the quality of everyday life.  Chemistry is a vehicle for development, and dealing with chemicals properly will lead to progress for countries in the Middle East and Northern Africa and around the world.  We, the chemists from the Middle East and Northern Africa, recognize the need to ensure that the benefits of any chemical activity we undertake far outweigh the risks to mankind and the environment, and we state our confidence that the solutions to problems in chemistry can be found in chemistry itself.  Accordingly, we pledge to abide by the principles in this code for the rational and responsible practice of chemistry.

Principles
We, as chemists, have a responsibility to practice chemistry with honesty, integrity, and professionalism.  Relevant knowledge, chemicals, and equipment should be shared with and available to all chemists in the region regardless of nationality, race, religion, gender, disability, or age.  The honor of our profession obligates us to:

    synthesize, consume, and handle chemicals according to international Good Laboratory Practice standards, specifying further that commercial facilities in the region develop and produce their products in compliance with Good Laboratory Practice and Good Manufacturing Practice.  In addition, all chemicals synthesized in the region must carry clear and accurate labels about components, the safe use and handling of the chemical, and the environmentally responsible method for storage and disposal of it.
    conduct analysis with unbiased methods to prevent a misleading presentation of the results;
    report research findings with complete documentation and only after a validation process that demonstrates our data is accurate, precise, and reproducible;
    give appropriate credit for contributions to research and refuse unwarranted credit for the work of colleagues;
    vigorously engage in meaningful, practical, and effective peer review so that research findings of the highest quality and greatest benefit to mankind are widely disseminated and utilized; and,
    when biological activity of a chemical is expected, minimize testing of chemical products on animal and human test subjects and to carefully consider the need for such testing.  When such testing is deemed necessary, it should be conducted according to accredited standards for humane testing with animals and with the advised consent of human subjects;

The honor of our profession also requires us never to:
    falsify data; 
    fabricate data; 
    plagiarize or steal the ideas of others; or, 
    sabotage the work or reputation of fellow chemists.

We undertake to serve as role models and educators to fellow chemists about the responsible practice of chemistry and as educators to the public about the safe use of chemical products, the environmentally responsible disposal of chemicals, and community awareness of the potential hazards present at local chemical facilities.  

We will also call attention to problems that we observe or behavior inconsistent with the principles stated in this code so that corrective actions can be taken as soon as possible.

We believe in a culture of responsibility for the safety and security of activities involving hazardous chemicals.  Everyone engaged in the operations of a chemical facility—from the highest administrative level to the individual chemists, technicians, and other workers—must be mindful of and contribute actively to this culture of responsibility.  Hazardous chemicals merit a cradle-to-grave approach for any activity involving such chemicals—from arrival at or synthesis at a facility through access to, use of, and disposal of these chemicals.

(add a sub-title, such as "Obligations" for example)

To establish and sustain the aforementioned culture, all chemists in the Middle East and Northern Africa have obligations to:
 
    take precautions to prevent accidents in the workplace by complying with pertinent safety rules and regulations;
    protect hazardous chemicals from outside theft, smuggling, diversion, unauthorized access, malicious destruction, loss, or other intentional crimes or damage; and,
    aim to minimize the production and use of chemicals, limit the use of solvents, recycle chemicals whenever possible, and employ appropriate pollution abatement equipment.  All chemists should be taught the twelve principles of “green” or environmentally safe and friendly chemistry at the earliest opportunity, provided in Annex I to this code, and incorporate these principles into everyday practice.

To fulfill these obligations, all chemists in the Middle East and Northern Africa should strive to ensure that their facilities:

    are designed, built, and properly maintained to minimize safety, security, and environmental risks;
    have an institutional committee to conduct safety, security, and environmental risk assessments, which provide the basis to identify and fill gaps in the requisite plans, policies, capacities, and procedures to deal with accidents and incidents in these areas.  Thereafter, this committee should regularly review, update, and upgrade these plans, policies, capacities, and procedures.  This committee should designate individuals responsible for critical safety, hazardous materials transport, environmental responsibility, security, and accountability activities;
    hire only companies qualified in safety, security, and environmental responsibility for the transport of hazardous chemicals to other facilities by air, rail, road, or sea;
    have a program of effective, qualified, mandatory training and continuing education covering safety, security, and environmental responsibility, including periodic drills with local emergency response personnel to mitigate the harm from worst-case accident scenarios.  The aforementioned institutional committee should oversee appropriate training of all facility personnel in these areas and routinely coordinate with pertinent local agencies regarding response to accidents and incidents on site;
    have inventory policies and procedures to track all chemicals throughout their life cycle at the facility;
    use only certified containers to minimize leaks and accidents for storage of hazardous materials and during their transport to different locations within a facility; and,
    employ only environmentally responsible methods for the final disposition of chemicals, including sending excess chemicals back to the supplier and disposing properly of expired and unused chemicals and waste products, whether the facility conducts its own disposal operations on site or hires a company qualified in environmentally responsible disposal of chemicals.

(add a sub-title, such as "Chemists and the Chemical Weapons Convention" for example)

Chemical warfare is abhorrent.  We call on the governments in the region that have not already joined the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention to do so and we place responsibility on all governments for complying fully with the provisions of this Convention.  We pledge not to engage knowingly or willingly in any activity that is against the Convention’s prohibitions.

We further pledge not to engage knowingly or willingly in any activity that aids, abets, or otherwise assists the terrorist development, acquisition, production, and use of chemical weapons and explosives.  We also agree to refrain from any activity that aids, assists, or otherwise abets the development and production of illicit, non-medicinal drugs and narcotics.
    
We call on our governments and the managers of chemical facilities to support the principles stated in this code by enacting laws, regulations, policies, and procedures consistent with this code and holding those who breech these principles accountable.  We are ready to facilitate this process by providing technical advice.

Annex I

12 Principles of Green Chemistry*

1.  Prevention: It is better to prevent waste than to treat or clean up waste after it has been created.

2.  Atom Economy: Synthetic methods should be designed to maximize the incorporation of all materials used in the process into the final product.

3.  Less Hazardous Chemical Syntheses: Wherever practicable, synthetic methods should be designed to use and generate substances that possess little or no toxicity to human health and the environment.

4.  Designing Safer Chemicals: Chemical products should be designed to effect their desired function while minimizing their toxicity.

5.  Safer Solvents and Auxiliaries: The use of auxiliary substances (e.g., solvents, separation agents, etc.) should be made unnecessary wherever possible and innocuous when used.

6.  Design for Energy Efficiency: Energy requirements of chemical processes should be recognized for their environmental and economic impacts and should be minimized. If possible, synthetic methods should be conducted at ambient temperature and pressure.

7.  Use of Renewable Feedstocks: A raw material or feedstock should be renewable rather than depleting whenever technically and economically practicable.

8.  Reduce Derivatives: Unnecessary derivatization (use of blocking groups, protection/ deprotection, temporary modification of physical/chemical processes) should be minimized or avoided if possible, because such steps require additional reagents and can generate waste.

9.  Catalysis: Catalytic reagents (as selective as possible) are superior to stoichiometric reagents.

10. Design for Degradation: Chemical products should be designed so that at the end of their function they break down into innocuous degradation products and do not persist in the environment.

11. Real-time analysis for Pollution Prevention: Analytical methodologies need to be further developed to allow for real-time, in-process monitoring and control prior to the formation of hazardous substances.

12. Inherently Safer Chemistry for Accident Prevention: Substances and the form of a substance used in a chemical process should be chosen to minimize the potential for chemical accidents, including releases, explosions, and fires.

*Source: Anastas, P. T. and Warner, J. C. Green Chemistry: Theory and Practice (New York: Oxford University Press, 1998), 30.

Association of the Chemical Profession of Ontario
Region: WEOG
Country: Canada
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Code of Ethics
1. Duty of Chartered Chemists to the Public
Chartered Chemists shall:
a) place the public welfare above any
consideration of self-interest and resolve any
conflicts in favour of the public good;
b) ensure that environmental and ecological
concerns are taken into account in the
performance of their duties;
c) protect the public welfare through cooperation
with government, enforcement and consumer
agencies;
d) report to the appropriate regulatory agency,
without fear or favour, any deliberate breach of
standards which may endanger the safety and
welfare of the public.
2. Duty of Chartered Chemists to an Employer
Chartered Chemists shall:
a) apprise themselves of the law as it relates to
their practice and ensure that both the letter
and spirit of the law are obeyed, in the
performance of their duties;
b) advise their employer of possible
contraventions of ethical standards of practice
and the law;
c) undertake to do only work that they are
competent to carry out;
d) protect trade secrets or information acquired
by virtue of their professional capacity;
e) be honest, diligent and conscientious in the
performance of their duties.
3. Duty of Chartered Chemists to a Client when in
Private Practice
Chartered Chemists shall:
a) maintain confidentiality of matters disclosed by
a client;
b) protect the client’s property, be it physical or
knowledge per se;
c) set fees which reflect fairly the knowledge, skill
and time involved in performing the professional
service.
4. Duty of Chartered Chemists to other Chartered
Chemists, Subordinates and other
Professionals
Chartered Chemists shall:
a) delegate responsibility in chemical matters that
require professional judgement only to another
qualified chemist;
b) respect colleagues, subordinates and other
professionals and not undertake to maliciously
or otherwise undermine another’s reputation;
c) properly supervise non-professional
subordinates and other non-chemist
professionals to ensure that they are not
exposed to undue risk in the performance of
work in a chemical environment;
d) willingly impart their knowledge to subordinates
and others where appropriate, in order to
enhance the overall standard of practice in their
professional environment.
5. Duty of Chartered Chemists to Themselves
Chartered Chemists shall:
a) maintain a high level of competence by
continuing education throughout their practice;
b) present a good image to the public by
maintaining high ethical standards of practice.

Australian Research Council, National Health and Medical Research Council
Region: WEOG
Country: Australia
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

AUSTRALIAN CODE FOR THE
RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT
OF RESEARCH
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES TO
ENCOURAGE RESPONSIBLE
RESEARCH CONDUCT
1 General principles of responsible
research
Introduction
Responsible research is encouraged and guided by the research culture of the organisation.
A strong research culture will demonstrate:
honesty and integrity
respect for human research participants, animals and the environment
good stewardship of public resources used to conduct research
appropriate acknowledgment of the role of others in research
responsible communication of research results.
This section discusses the responsibilities of institutions and researchers to maintain an
environment that fosters responsible research.
Responsibilities of institutions
1.1 Promote the responsible conduct of research
Institutions are expected to:
promote awareness of all guidelines and legislation relating to the conduct of research
provide documents setting out clearly the policies and procedures based on this Code
actively encourage mutual cooperation with open exchange of ideas between peers,
and respect for freedom of expression and inquiry
maintain a climate in which responsible and ethical behavior in research is expected.
1.2 Establish good governance and management practices
Good institutional governance and management practices encourage responsible
conduct by researchers. Such practices promote quality in research, enhance the
reputation of the institution and its researchers, and minimise the risk of harm for
all involved.
1.2.1 Each institution should provide an appropriate research governance framework
through which research is assessed for quality, safety, privacy, risk management,
financial management and ethical acceptability. The framework should specify
the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities of all those who play a part
in research.
1.2.2 The research governance framework should demand compliance with laws,
regulations, guidelines and codes of practice governing the conduct of research
in Australia (see Appendix 3). Common law obligations also arise from the
relationships between institutions, researchers and participants, while contractual
arrangements may impose further obligations.
1.2.3 Each institution must ensure the availability of the documents that help guide
good research governance, conduct and management.
1.2.4 There must be a clear policy on collaborative research projects with other
organisations, which requires arrangements to be agreed before a project
begins. As a minimum, these arrangements should cover financial management,
intellectual property, authorship and publication, consultancies, secondments,
ethics approval, and ownership of equipment and data.
1.2.5 Each institution must have a well-defined process for receiving and managing
allegations of research misconduct.
1.2.6 There must be a process for regular monitoring of the institution’s performance
with regard to these guidelines.
1.3 Train staff
It is important that institutions provide induction, formal training and continuing
education for all research staff, including research trainees. Training should cover
research methods, ethics, confidentiality, data storage and records retention, as well
as regulation and governance. Training should also cover the institution’s policies
regarding responsible research conduct, all aspects of this Code, and other sources of
guidance that are available. Institutions may make arrangements for joint induction and
training with other institutions.
1.4 Promote mentoring
Institutions should promote effective mentoring and supervision of researchers and
research trainees. This includes advising on research ethics, research design and
methods, and the responsible conduct of research.
1.5 Ensure a safe research environment
Each institution must ensure a safe working environment in which to conduct each
research project.
Responsibilities of researchers
1.6 Maintain high standards of responsible research
Researchers must foster and maintain a research environment of intellectual honesty
and integrity, and scholarly and scientific rigour. Researchers must:
respect the truth and the rights of those affected by their research
manage conflicts of interest so that ambition and personal advantage do not
compromise ethical or scholarly considerations
adopt methods appropriate for achieving the aims of each research proposal
follow proper practices for safety and security
cite awards, degrees conferred and research publications accurately, including the
status of any publication, such as under review or in press
promote adoption of this Code and avoid departures from the responsible conduct
of research
conform to the policies adopted by their institutions and bodies funding the research.
1.7 Report research responsibly
Researchers should ensure that research findings are disseminated responsibly.
1.8 Respect research participants
Researchers must comply with ethical principles of integrity, respect for persons, justice
and beneficence.
Written approval from appropriate ethics committees, safety and other regulatory bodies
must be obtained when required.
The National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Human Research and Values and
Ethics — Guidelines for Ethical Conduct in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health
Research (or any replacement documents) sets out principles for protecting human
participants in research (see Appendix 3).
1.9 Respect animals used in research
Researchers must respect the animals they use in research, in accordance with the
Australian Code of Practice for the Care and Use of Animals for Scientific Purposes
(see Appendix 3).
1.10 Respect the environment
Researchers should conduct their research so as to minimise adverse effects on the
wider community and the environment.
1.11 Report research misconduct
A researcher who considers that research misconduct may have occurred must act in a
timely manner, having regard to the institution’s policies.
SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITIES
1.12 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
It is acknowledged that research with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
spans many methodologies and disciplines. There are wide variations in the ways in
which Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander individuals, communities or groups are
involved in, or affected by, research to which this Code applies.
This Code should be read in conjunction with Values and Ethics: Guidelines for Ethical
Conduct in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Research (NHMRC 2003)
and the Guidelines for Ethical Research in Indigenous Studies (Australian Institute of
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies 2002).
1.13 Consumer and community participation in research
Appropriate consumer involvement in research should be encouraged and facilitated by
research institutions and researchers. This Code should be read in conjunction with the
Statement on Consumer and Community Participation in Health and Medical Research
(NHMRC and Consumers’ Health Forum of Australia Inc, 2002).
2 Management of research data and
primary materials
Responsibilities of institutions
2.1 Retain research data and primary materials
Each institution must have a policy on the retention of materials and research data. It
is important that institutions acknowledge their continuing role in the management of
research material and data. The institutional policy must be consistent with practices in
the discipline, relevant legislation, codes and guidelines.
2.1.1 In general, the minimum recommended period for retention of research data is
5 years from the date of publication. However, in any particular case, the period
for which data should be retained should be determined by the specific type of
research. For example:
– for short-term research projects that are for assessment purposes only, such
as research projects completed by students, retaining research data for
12 months after the completion of the project may be sufficient
– for most clinical trials, retaining research data for 15 years or more may
be necessary
– for areas such as gene therapy, research data must be retained permanently
(eg patient records)
– if the work has community or heritage value, research data should be kept
permanently at this stage, preferably within a national collection.
2.1.2 A policy is required that covers the secure and safe disposal of research data
and primary materials when the specified period of retention has finished.
2.2 Provide secure research data storage and record-keeping facilities
Institutions must provide facilities for the safe and secure storage of research data and
for maintaining records of where research data are stored.
2.2.1 There must be a policy on research data ownership and storage. This policy
must cover all situations that arise in research, including when researchers move
between institutions or employers and when data are held outside Australia.
Agreements covering ownership and storage of research data should be
reviewed whenever there is movement or departure of research staff.
2.2.2 Wherever possible and appropriate, research data should be held in the
researcher’s department or other appropriate institutional repository, although
researchers should be permitted to hold copies of the research data for
their own use. Arrangements for material held in other locations should
be documented.
2.2.3 In projects that span several institutions, an agreement should be developed at
the outset covering the storage of research data and primary materials within
each institution.
2.2.4 Research data and primary materials must be stored in the safe and secure
storage provided.
2.3 Identify ownership of research data and primary materials
Each institution must have a policy on the ownership of research materials and data
during and following the research project. The ownership may also be influenced
by the funding arrangements for the project. As a general rule, the most satisfactory
arrangement will be that the materials and data retained at the end of a project are the
property of the institution that hosted the project, another institution with an interest in
the research, or a central repository.
2.4 Ensure security and confidentiality of research data and primary materials
Each institution must have a policy on the ownership of, and access to, databases and
archives that is consistent with confidentiality requirements, legislation, privacy rules
and other guidelines.
2.4.1 The policy must guide researchers in the management of research data and
primary materials, including storage, access, ownership and confidentiality.
2.4.2 The processes must ensure that researchers are informed of relevant
confidentiality agreements and restrictions on the use of research data.
2.4.3 Computing systems must be secure, and information technology personnel
must understand their responsibilities for network security and access control.
2.4.4 Those holding primary material, including electronic material, must understand
their responsibilities for security and access.
Responsibilities of researchers
2.5 Retain research data and primary materials
When considering how long research data and primary materials are to be retained,
the researcher must take account of professional standards, legal requirements and
contractual arrangements.
2.5.1 Researchers should retain research data and primary materials for sufficient
time to allow reference to them by other researchers and interested parties.
For published research data, this may be for as long as interest and discussion
persist following publication.
AUSTRALIAN CODE FOR THE RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT OF RESEARCH
Part A—principles and practices to encourage responsible research conduct
section 2: Management of research data and primar y materials | 2.3
2.5.2 Research data should be made available for use by other researchers unless this
is prevented by ethical, privacy or confidentiality matters.
2.5.3 Research data should be retained for at least the minimum period specified in
the institutional policy.
2.5.4 If the results from research are challenged, all relevant data and materials must
be retained until the matter is resolved. Research records that may be relevant to
allegations of research misconduct must not be destroyed.
2.5.5 The institutional policy on the secure and safe disposal of primary materials and
research data must be followed.
2.6 Manage storage of research data and primary materials
Researchers must manage research data and primary materials in accordance with the
policy of the institution. To achieve this, researchers must:
2.6.1 Keep clear and accurate records of the research methods and data sources,
including any approvals granted, during and after the research process.
2.6.2 Ensure that research data and primary materials are kept in safe and secure
storage provided, even when not in current use.
2.6.3 Provide the same level of care and protection to primary research records, such
as laboratory notebooks, as to the analysed research data.
2.6.4 Retain research data, including electronic data, in a durable, indexed and
retrievable form.
2.6.5 Maintain a catalogue of research data in an accessible form.
2.6.6 Manage research data and primary materials according to ethical protocols and
relevant legislation.
2.7 Maintain confidentiality of research data and primary materials
Researchers given access to confidential information must maintain that confidentiality.
Primary materials and confidential research data must be kept in secure storage.
Confidential information must only be used in ways agreed with those who provided
it. Particular care must be exercised when confidential data are made available
for discussion.
3 Supervision of research trainees
Introduction
All research trainees must receive training on research ethics, this Code and the research
policies of the institution concerned. This should have high priority for completion early
in their careers. Researchers and supervisors must ensure that the role model they provide
to junior colleagues is positive and conducive to a research culture of excellence, integrity,
professionalism and mutual respect.
In return, research trainees must understand that in undertaking research they are joining
an endeavour that requires dedication and accountability. Thus, research trainees also have
responsibilities under this section.
Responsibilities of institutions
3.1 Set standards for supervision and mentorship
Institutions must ensure that each research trainee, whether part of the institution or
from elsewhere, has an appropriately qualified and trained supervisor. It follows
that the ratio of research trainees to supervisors must be low enough for effective
intellectual interaction.
3.2 Induct research trainees
Institutions must ensure that research trainees understand the importance of responsible
research conduct.
3.2.1 Each institution must provide induction and training for all research trainees.
This training should cover research ethics, occupational health and safety,
and environmental protection, as well as technical matters appropriate to
the discipline.
3.2.2 The institution must maintain the ready availability of key documents on the
responsible conduct of research, including this Code, institutional guidelines
on the conduct of research, requirements for research involving humans and
animals, privacy and confidentiality, and the institution’s mechanisms for
dispute resolution.
Responsibilities of researchers and super visors of
research trainees
3.3 Ensure training
Supervisors of research trainees should ensure that training starts as soon as possible
in the career of a researcher. Training should encompass discipline-based research
methods and other relevant skills, such as the ability to interact with industry and to
work with diverse communities.
3.4 Mentor and provide support
The research supervisor should guide the professional development of research
trainees. This involves providing guidance in all matters relating to research conduct
and overseeing all stages of the research process, including identifying the research
objectives and approach, obtaining ethics and other approvals, obtaining funding,
conducting the research, and reporting the research outcomes in appropriate forums
and media.
3.5 Ensure valid and accurate research
Supervision includes oversight of the research outcomes from those under supervision.
A supervisor must be satisfied that the research methods and outcomes of researchers
and research trainees under their supervision are appropriate and valid.
3.6 Ensure appropriate attribution
Researchers and supervisors must ensure that research trainees receive appropriate
credit for their work.
Responsibilities of research trainees
3.7 Seek guidance
A research trainee must demonstrate a professional attitude towards the research.
Frequent sessions with the supervisor are important, requiring the cooperation of both
parties. The trainee should not wait until approached by the supervisor but should play
an active part in maintaining an appropriate schedule of meetings.
3.8 Undertake induction and training
A research trainee should complete all induction and training courses as soon as
practical after starting research in an institution.
4 Publication and dissemination of
research findings
Introduction
Dissemination of research findings is an important part of the research process, passing on the
benefits to other researchers, professional practitioners and the wider community. Research
activities supported by public funding are rarely complete until the results have been made
widely available. However, research is expensive and often cannot be undertaken without
the support of commercial sponsors, who seek rewards in the form of rights to commercial
exploitation of the research outcomes. In such cases, sponsors may seek to delay or otherwise
restrict the release of research results. In publications and dissemination in such instances, the
general principles of responsible research set out in Section 1 of this Code apply.
There are many ways of disseminating research findings. Formal publication of the results
of research will usually take place in academic journals or books, but this is not always the
case. This section of the Code applies to all forms of dissemination, including non-refereed
publications, such as web pages, and other media such as exhibitions or films, as well as
professional and institutional repositories.
This section should be read in conjunction with Sections 5 (Authorship) and 6 (Peer review).
Responsibilities of institutions
4.1 Promote responsible publication and dissemination of research findings
Institutions must promote an environment of honesty, integrity, accuracy and
responsibility in the dissemination of research findings.
4.2 Protect confidentiality and manage intellectual property
4.2.1 Institutions must ensure that all parties to the research are made aware of the
nature and scope of confidentiality agreements (see also paragraph 2.7).
4.2.2 Institutions must maintain a policy that protects the intellectual property rights
of the institution, the researcher, research trainees and sponsors of the research,
as appropriate.
4.2.3 Institutions must ensure that the sponsors of research understand the importance
of publication in research and do not delay publication beyond the time needed
to protect intellectual property and other relevant interests.
4.2.4 Institutions must ensure that researchers are aware of contractual arrangements
that restrict, delay or limit publication.
4.3 Support communication of research findings to the wider public
4.3.1 Institutions should make available assistance, such as through a media relations
or a science communication officer, to researchers when communicating
research findings through the media.
4.3.2 When reporting research results for publicity purposes, institutions must make
every effort to acknowledge partner institutions and sponsors involved in
collaborative research.
Responsibilities of researchers
4.4 Disseminate all research findings
Researchers have a responsibility to their colleagues and the wider community to
disseminate a full account of their research as broadly as possible.
4.4.1 The account should be complete, and, where applicable, include negative
findings and results contrary to their hypotheses.
4.4.2 Publication activities must take account of any restrictions relating to intellectual
property or culturally sensitive data.
4.4.3 Researchers must, where feasible, also provide research participants with an
appropriate summary of the research results; see, for example, the Statement
on Consumer and Community Participation in Health and Medical Research
(see Appendix 3).
4.5 Ensure accuracy of publication and dissemination
Researchers must take all reasonable steps to ensure that their findings are accurate and
properly reported. If they become aware of misleading or inaccurate statements about
their work, they must correct the record as soon as possible.
4.6 Cite the work of other authors fully and accurately
Researchers must ensure that they cite other relevant work appropriately and accurately
when disseminating research findings. Use of the work of other authors without
acknowledgement is unethical.
4.7 Multiple submissions of research findings
It is not acceptable to include the same research findings in several publications, except
in particular and clearly explained circumstances, such as review articles, anthologies,
collections, or translations into another language. An author who submits substantially
similar work to more than one publisher, or who submits work similar to work already
published, must disclose this at the time of submission.
4.8 Obtain permission for republishing
Researchers must take all reasonable steps to obtain permission from the original
publisher before republishing research findings.
4.9 Disclose research support accurately
A publication must include information on all sources of financial and in-kind support
for the research and any potential conflicts of interest. Researchers must acknowledge
the host institution and funding sources of the research.
4.10 Register clinical trials
Researchers must register clinical trials with a recognised register to promote access to
information about all clinical trials.
4.11 Manage confidentiality
Sometimes the confidentiality requirements of a sponsor can prevent or delay peer
review until after the research results are delivered to the sponsor. In such cases, the
researcher must explain to the sponsor that the work has not been subject to peer
review. The importance of peer review in the research process is discussed in Section 6.
Whenever a sponsor’s confidentiality requirements prevent peer review of a research
report before its delivery to the sponsor, the researcher must inform the sponsor.
4.12 Responsibly communicating research findings in the public arena
Subject to any conditions imposed by the research sponsor, researchers should seek
to communicate their research findings to a range of audiences, which may include
the sponsor, professional organisations, peer researchers, policy makers and the
community. Researchers may be interviewed by the media, invited to participate in
debates, and approached by individuals for comment. It is important that all these
activities are considered and supported where possible.
However, while it is straightforward to discuss research findings with peers, it is
harder to do so effectively with other groups and the media, where the scope for
misunderstanding is much greater and frequently there is no opportunity to review the
report of discussions before it becomes public.
Researchers should seek opportunities and be ready to participate in workshops and
other activities where professional assistance is provided in communicating with the
media and the wider community.
The following points should be noted in relation to publicly communicating research
findings:
4.12.1 Discussing research findings in the public arena should not occur until the
findings have been tested through peer review. In discussing the outcomes of a
research project, special care should be taken to explain the status of the project
— for example, whether it is still in progress or has been finalised.
4.12.2 To minimise misunderstanding about research outcomes, researchers should
undertake to promptly inform those directly impacted by the research, including
interested parties, before informing the popular media.
4.12.3 The outcomes of research with a strong commercial element may have to be
presented to a stock exchange or financial body before any public release.
4.12.4 Any restrictions on communications that have been agreed with the sponsor
must be honoured.
AUSTRALIAN CODE FOR THE RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT OF RESEARCH
part a—principles and practices to encourage responsible research conduct
section 5: authorship | 5.1
5 Authorship
Introduction
The outcomes of research may be disseminated in a variety of ways but enduring forms,
such as journal articles, are particularly important and to be an author for such a form is
meritorious. To be named as an author, a researcher must have made a substantial scholarly
contribution to the work and be able to take responsibility for at least that part of the work
they contributed.
Attribution of authorship depends to some extent on the discipline, but in all cases,
authorship must be based on substantial contributions in a combination of:
conception and design of the project
analysis and interpretation of research data
drafting significant parts of the work or critically revising it so as to contribute to the
interpretation.
The right to authorship is not tied to position or profession and does not depend on whether
the contribution was paid for or voluntary. It is not enough to have provided materials or
routine technical support, or to have made the measurements on which the publication is
based. Substantial intellectual involvement is required.
A person who qualifies as an author must not be included or excluded as an author
without their permission. This should be in writing, and include a brief description of their
contribution to the work.
Sometimes the editor of a significant collective work or anthology has responsibilities
analogous to those listed above for authorship and, in such cases, similar criteria apply to
‘editor’ as to ‘author’. However, the term ‘editor’ should be applied only to a person who has
played a significant role in the intellectual shaping of a publication.
Responsibilities of institutions
5.1 Have criteria for authorship
Institutions must have a policy on the criteria for authorship consistent with this Code,
seeking to minimise disputes about authorship and helping to resolve them if they arise.
Where a work has several authors, one should be appointed executive author to record
authorship and to manage communication about the work with the publisher.
Responsibilities of researchers
5.2 Follow policies on authorship
Researchers should adhere to the authorship criteria of this Code and their institution’s
policies.
5.3 Agree on authorship
Collaborating researchers should agree on authorship of a publication at an early stage
in the research project and should review their decisions periodically.
5.4 Include all authors
Researchers must offer authorship to all people, including research trainees, who meet
the criteria for authorship listed above. Those offered authorship must accept or decline
in writing.
5.5 Do not allow unacceptable inclusions of authorship
Authorship should not be offered to those who do not meet the requirements set out
above. For example, none of the following contributions, in and of themselves, justifies
including a person as an author:
being head of department, holding other positions of authority, or personal friendship
with the authors
providing a technical contribution but no other intellectual input to the project
or publication
providing routine assistance in some aspects of the project, the acquisition of funding
or general supervision of the research team
providing data that has already been published or materials obtained from third
parties, but with no other intellectual input.
5.6 Acknowledge other contributions fairly
Researchers must ensure that all those who have contributed to the research, facilities
or materials are properly acknowledged, such as research assistants and technical
writers. Where individuals are to be named, their written consent must be obtained.
5.7 Extend the authorship policy to web-based publications
Authors of web-based publications must be able to take responsibility for the
publication’s content and must be clearly identified in the publication.
5.8 Maintain signed acknowledgments of authorship for all publications
The department of the executive or senior author must retain the written acknowledgment
of authorship discussed above in the form of an original hand-written signature. Where
it is not practical to obtain an original signature, it is acceptable to use faxed or emailed
consent. This also applies to published conference abstracts and similar publications.
If an author is deceased or cannot be contacted, the publication can proceed provided
that there are no grounds to believe that this person would have objected to being
included as an author.
6 Peer revie w
Introduction
The term ‘peer review’ is used here to describe impartial and independent assessment of
research by others working in the same or a related field. Peer review has a number of
important roles in research and research management, in the assessment of grant applications,
in selecting material for publication, in the review of performance of researchers and teams,
and in the selection of staff.
Participation in peer review processes should be encouraged. Peer review provides expert
scrutiny of a project, and helps to maintain high standards and encourage accurate, thorough
and credible research reporting.
Peer review may also draw attention to deviations from the principles of this Code, such
as double publication, errors and misleading statements. Peer review has been important in
the detection of fabrication and fraud in research. However, on its own, it cannot ensure
research integrity.
Responsibilities of institutions
6.1 Encourage participation in peer review
Institutions should recognise the importance of the peer review process and encourage
and support researchers to participate.
Responsibilities of peer re vie wers
6.2 Conduct peer review responsibly
It is important that participants in peer review:
are fair and timely in their review
act in confidence and do not disclose the content or outcome of any process in which
they are involved
declare all conflicts of interest, do not permit personal prejudice to influence the
peer review process, and do not introduce considerations that are not relevant to the
review criteria
do not take undue or calculated advantage of knowledge obtained during the peer
review process
ensure that they are informed about, and comply with, the criteria to be applied
do not agree to participate in peer review outside their area of expertise
give proper consideration to research that challenges or changes accepted ways
of thinking.
Responsibilities of researchers
6.3 Do not interfere during the peer review process
Researchers whose work is undergoing peer review must not seek to influence the
process or outcomes.
6.4 Participate in peer review
Researchers in receipt of public funding have a responsibility to participate in peer
review processes.
6.5 Mentor trainees in peer review
Supervising researchers have a responsibility to assist trainee researchers in developing
the necessary skills for peer review and understanding their obligation to participate.
6.6 Declare conflicts of interest
Peer reviewers must declare all relevant conflicts of interest.
AUSTRALIAN CODE FOR THE RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT OF RESEARCH
part a—principles and practic es to encourage responsible research conduct
section 7: conflicts of interest | 7.1
7 Conflicts of interest
Introduction
A conflict of interest exists where there is a divergence between the individual interests of
a person and their professional responsibilities such that an independent observer might
reasonably conclude that the professional actions of that person are unduly influenced by
their own interests.
Conflicts of interest in the research area are common and it is important that they are
disclosed and dealt with properly. Conflicts of interest have the potential to compromise
judgments and decisions that should be made impartially. Such compromise could undermine
community trust in research.
Financial conflicts of interest are foremost in the public mind but other conflicts of interest
also occur in research, including personal, professional and institutional advantages.
The perception that a conflict of interest exists is also a serious matter and raises concerns
about the integrity of individuals or the management practices of the institution.
There is a broad range of actual and potential conflicts of interest in the research
environment, and institutions need to have a comprehensive policy in place to cover the
likely range of circumstances.
Responsibilities of institutions
7.1 Maintain a policy
Institutions must have a policy for managing conflicts of interest. A range of responses is
required, depending on the nature of a conflict, to prevent researchers from influencing
decisions unfairly and to avoid unwarranted perception that a conflict of interest has
been ignored.
Advice on managing conflicts of interest is readily available from organisations such as
law societies and institutes of company directors. In relation to policy, the following
points should be observed:
7.1.1 Ensure that the policy is clearly written and readily available to all staff.
7.1.2 In each conflict of interest case, encourage a full disclosure by those involved
of the circumstances giving rise to concerns about the conflict of interest. This
sometimes involves information that people are unwilling to disclose publicly,
and a process involving disclosure to a small group in confidence should
also be provided. Where those involved are unable or unwilling to make any
disclosure at all, they should withdraw from processes that could be influenced
by conflicts.
7.1.3 Where the circumstances constitute a conflict of interest, or may lead people
to perceive a conflict of interest, the person concerned must not take part in
decision-making processes. The most satisfactory approach is for complete
withdrawal (eg leaving the room for the item), but some bodies allow some
general discussion of the matter before the person withdraws. It is preferable
that the person concerned does not remain in the room, even if silent, while the
matter is debated and decided.
AUSTRALIAN CODE FOR THE RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT OF RESEARCH
part a—principles and practic es to encourage responsible research conduct
7.2 | section 7: conflicts of interest
7.1.4 A record must be kept of how each conflict is managed in the proceedings,
even if confidential information must be omitted. It is important that the
possibility of a conflict is acknowledged in each case, along with an outline
of how it was managed.
7.1.5 The policy should aim to cover the full range of possible conflicts of interest,
and the policy must be reviewed regularly to enable amendment informed by
experience and legislative and regulatory developments.
Responsibilities of researchers
7.2 Disclose conflicts of interest
Researchers frequently have a conflict of interest that cannot be avoided. Decisionmaking
processes in research often need expert advice, and the pool of experts in a
field can be so small that all the experts have some link with the matter under decision.
An individual researcher should therefore expect to be conflicted from time to time,
and be ready to acknowledge the conflict and make disclosures as appropriate.
7.2.1 Researchers should use the following approach to manage conflicts of interest:
read and understand the policy of the institution
maintain records of activities that may lead to conflicts, for example:
consultancies; membership of committees, boards of directors, advisory
groups, or selection committees; and financial delegation or in receipt of cash,
services or equipment from outside bodies to support research activities
when invited to join a committee or equivalent, review current activities for
actual or apparent conflicts and bring possible conflicts of interest to the
attention of those running the process
disclose any actual or apparent conflict of interest as soon as it becomes
apparent.
7.2.2 While there is no requirement to disclose the details of a conflict of interest,
for example, because of a confidentiality agreement or for personal reasons,
the existence of the conflict must be declared, followed by withdrawal from
the situation.
8 Collaborative research across
institutions
Introduction
Research can involve a wide range of collaborations within institutions, between institutions,
and internationally. Collaborative research has increased markedly in recent times and
this raises specific issues, such as sharing intellectual property, managing research findings,
managing conflicts of interest, and commercialising research outcomes.
Research practices differ between countries, but researchers supported by Australian public
funding should make every effort to comply with this Code even when conducting research
outside Australia. Any need to deviate from this Code must be submitted for institutional
approval.
Responsibilities of institutions
8.1 Establish agreements for each collaboration
Organisations involved in a joint research project should ensure that an agreement
is reached with the partners on the management of the research. Such an agreement
should follow the general principles of this Code, including integrity, honesty and a
commitment to excellence.
The agreement should be in writing. It must cover intellectual property, confidentiality
and copyright issues; sharing commercial returns, responsibility for ethics and safety
clearances; and reporting to appropriate agencies. It should address the protocols
to be followed by the partners when disseminating the research outcomes, and the
management of primary research materials and research data.
The agreement may take various forms, including a legal contract signed by the
chief executive officer, an exchange of letters, or a research management plan signed
by all parties, or management plans signed by appropriate representatives from
all parties.
Each organisation must ensure that its researchers are aware of, and understand, the
policy and agreements governing the joint research collaboration.
8.2 Manage conflicts of interest
Institutions must have a policy for managing conflicts of interest that arise in
collaborative research (see Section 7).
8.3 Manage access to research materials
The collaborating parties should each identify a person to be involved in the
management of research data, primary materials and other items to be retained
at the end of the project.
AUSTRALIAN CODE FOR THE RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT OF RESEARCH
part a—principles and practic es to encourage responsible research conduct
8.2 | section 8: collaborative research across institutions
Responsibilities of researchers
8.4 Comply with multi-institutional agreements
Researchers involved in joint research must be aware of, and comply with, all
policies and written agreements affecting the project, particularly those relating to
the dissemination of research findings and the management of research data and
primary materials.
8.5 Declare conflicts of interest
When establishing a research collaboration, researchers must disclose as soon as
possible any actual or apparent conflicts of interest relating to any aspect of the project.
BASF
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct
Company
One Code of Conduct
The BASF Compliance Program
Human Rights, Labor, and Social Standards
BASF seeks to ensure that the conduct of all BASF employees is consistent with internationally agreed-upon standards of human rights as well as core labor and social standards. These standards include the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the International Labor Organisation (ILO) Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy.
BASF is particularly committed to the abolition of all forms of child and forced labor, the principle of non-discrimination, the recognition of the freedom to associate, collective bargaining and social partnership, fair compensation and benefits based on local market conditions, entitlement to adequate working hours and paid leave as well as maintaining proportionality in disciplinary measures and security.
BASF is firmly committed to equal employment opportunities and to compliance with all applicable laws that particularly prohibit employment discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, religion or disability. This policy applies to all employment decisions, including recruiting, hiring, training, job rotations, promotions, pay practices, benefits, disciplinary actions and terminations. BASF also strictly prohibits sexual harassment and other workplace harassment. BASF promotes a diverse and inclusive workplace.
We act in accordance with internationally declared human rights, labor and social standards and adhere to applicable laws within the framework of our business activities.
Protection of Environment, Health, and Safety
As The Chemical Company, we drive sustainable solutions and take on economic, ecological and social responsibility. We never compromise on safety. Economic considerations do not take priority over safety, health and environmental protection.
Compliance with all legislation to protect humans and the environment is one of our basic tenets. This applies to our products as well as to our processes.
You are required to deal responsibly with natural resources and to protect the environment in your area of work. Likewise, the health and safety of all humans is of utmost importance to BASF. According to the principle of Responsible Care, we act responsibly to protect and preserve our employees’, neighbors’ and business partners’ health. Each employee is responsible for working safely at all times and must comply with all applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations, as well as with the corresponding corporate policies and rules. All managers have the duty to instruct, supervise and support their team in living up to this responsibility. In areas where no express regulations or corporate policies and rules exist for environmental protection and occupational health and safety, you must make your own decisions based on common sense, in consultation with your manager where necessary.
Air, water and land may be used for industrial purposes only within the framework of approvals granted by the relevant authorities. The same applies when erecting and operating or modifying and extending production plants. Every unauthorized release of substances must be avoided.
Waste must be disposed of in accordance with legal requirements. If the services of third parties are used for this purpose, it must be ensured that they, too, comply
with environmental regulations and our corporate standards.
BASF often goes beyond the minimum requirements of existing laws and constantly strives to improve procedures and processes to further minimize our environmental impact and prevent health risks. However, if incidents or plant malfunctions nevertheless occur, the relevant corporate units must be immediately and comprehensively informed. The goal is to initiate the appropriate emergency response and damage repair measures as promptly and as precisely as possible. Furthermore, these units must immediately communicate with governmental authorities and provide the information required by law. Where necessary, the units responsible for environmental protection must also exercise their duty to warn and inform the neighborhood.
Employees who report such incidents in good faith need not fear any disadvantage. On the contrary, omitted, delayed or incomplete reports are not in the company’s interest.
Each employee shares in the responsibility to protect human beings and the environment in his or her area of work.
Antitrust Laws
Our policy is to promote fair competition. We therefore require all employees to strictly abide by all applicable antitrust laws.
Violations are subject to severe sanctions and fines and may lead to the invalidity of the affected agreement.
Agreements between competitors
Agreements and concerted practices between competitors (“horizontal agreements”) are prohibited if their objective or effect is to prevent or restrict competition.
These comprise, for example, agreements on prices, collusion on tender bids, allocation of customers, terms of sale or procurement, production or sales quotas, or carving up geographical markets.
Not only agreements, i.e., express contractual arrangements, but also concerted action resulting from a sequence of unilateral declarations (e.g., announcements of price increases aimed at triggering the same reactions from competitors) are prohibited.
Any direct or indirect exchange of information between competitors (which can include non-exclusive distributors) is prohibited, such as information on customers, pricing, costs, salaries, terms of sale, methods of distribution, market shares, production volumes, bidding or strategies (business and research strategies, for example).
In the course of contact with competitors, you must always ensure that no information is accepted or given which permits any conclusions regarding the present or future market conduct of the information-providing party.
In case of horizontal agreements, the strict regulations of the European antitrust law must be complied with worldwide, irrespective of local laws that may be less strict or non-existent.
Vertical Agreements
Many types of vertical agreements, i.e., arrangements and agreements between suppliers and customers or patent holders and licensees, are forbidden in the E.U., the United States and other countries, and may lead to the imposition of fines or the invalidity of the respective agreements.
These include restrictions of the customer’s freedom to set prices and conditions of supply with respect to their business partners (geographical, customer or application restrictions), certain
most-favored-customer clauses, exclusivity such as total requirement or exclusive supply, as well as non-competition.
In many cases, the permissibility and, as a result, effectiveness of a restraint will depend on the duration and intensity as well as the market position of those involved.
Furthermore, there are differences in the permissibility of vertical restraints in different jurisdictions. Therefore, unlike horizontal restraints, local laws prevail and must be checked.
 Abuse of a dominant market position
Due to its market position in many product areas, BASF is often subject to specific rules. In principle, the abuse of a dominant market position is prohibited in the E.U., the United States, China and other countries, although with minor differences, and subject to the imposition of fines or the invalidity of the respective agreements. Such abuse can, for example, be different treatment of customers without good cause (ban on discrimination), refusal to supply, selective supply, imposition of inadequate purchase/ sales prices, and conditions or tie-in arrangements without justification for the additional service demanded.
The definition of a dominant market position, as well as the limits within which a given conduct is permissible, depend on the circumstances of the individual case. Furthermore, there are different rules in different jurisdictions. Therefore, local laws prevail and must be checked.
In case of doubt in connection with antitrust laws or the permissibility of a certain behavior under such laws, you are requested to consult your manager or the legal department at an early stage.
Our policies towards antitrust laws cover agreements between competitors, vertical agreements, and the abuse of a dominant market position.
Corruption
All our business partners, in particular our suppliers, customers, joint venture partners, contractors and distributors, must be dealt with fairly. BASF expects the same from its business partners. Our relations with all business partners shall be based solely on objective criteria, in particular quality, reliability, competitive prices, as well
as compliance with environmental, social and corporate governance standards. Anti-bribery laws in most countries of the world prohibit bribes to domestic and foreign governmental officials and employees and representatives of domestic and foreign companies in the private sector.
BASF is strictly committed to fighting any kind of corruption. Therefore, BASF prohibits its employees, agents, and other third parties acting on BASF’s behalf from engaging in any form of bribery. While dealing with business partners or government officials, they must never demand or accept anything of value (e.g. cash, gifts, entertainment or any other personal benefits) which could be construed as an attempt to influence or induce business decisions. Likewise, employees of other companies
or government officials must never be promised or granted any personal benefits with the intent to obtain or retain business or to gain any improper advantage for BASF.
We require all employees to inform their manager if a business partner or governmental official offers or demands any personal benefits.
Furthermore, “facilitation” or “grease” payments (i.e., small cash or non-cash benefits to office holders to facilitate administrative procedures or official acts, e.g., customs clearances, to which the company or the individual is entitled) are not allowed. If, however, the refusal to make facilitation payments would put your personal safety at risk, you may make such a payment  but must inform your manager thereafter.
Never accept or offer any benefit that could be construed as an attempt to influence or induce business decisions.
 Gifts and Entertainment
Gifts and invitations in business are generally handled much more restrictively today than some years ago. We explicitly welcome and support this development.
Consequently, gifts, business meals or entertainment are to  be given or accepted only if intended or understood as simple business courtesies which are consistent with customary business practices and which from the outset rule out any influence on a business decision or an official decree. This also applies to gifts, meals or entertainment given or accepted in the course of professional business events or conferences.
If inappropriate gifts cannot be tactfully refused, they should be accepted. In that case, the manager must be informed thereof and shall decide on the further treatment (e.g., a donation to charity).
Offering, granting, demanding or accepting cash or cash equivalents is never appropriate.
In most countries, gifts and invitations of a certain value are considered taxable benefits. You must make sure that the applicable tax law is strictly adhered to. If in doubt, you are required to consult your manager or the tax department.
 Specific gift policies – in due consideration of the principles above – may exist in your country or unit (e.g., procurement).
In case of doubt, you are requested to consult your Compliance Officer or the legal department.
Only accept gifts, business meals or entertainment if they are understood to be simple business courtesies.
Conflicts of Interest
You are expected to act in the best interests of our company and to safeguard its reputation by avoiding conflicts of interest. Personal relationships or interests must not affect business activities. This means that you must not create or maintain personal interests, which may pose, or appear to pose, a conflict with the interests of BASF or which might influence, or appear to influence, your judgment in the performance of your duties.
You should, for example, avoid any investment, interest, association, or activity that may cause others to doubt your fairness, integrity or ability to perform your duties objectively.
Each employee must inform his manager of any existing or potential conflict of interest and seek a solution together with
the manager to avoid, or at least minimize, the conflict of interest.
Employees’ private interests and the interests of the company must be strictly segregated. If you are in doubt, just ask!
Information Protection and Insider Trading Laws
Any non-public information about BASF that, if disclosed, would be detrimental to the company, or would give someone an unfair business or personal advantage, is confidential property of the company. Inventions, patents and expertise are particularly important for the long-term success of BASF. You must always keep confidential information secret and protected against unauthorized access by third parties. You must also not exploit your knowledge of such information for your personal gain or the benefit of a third party. This also applies to confidential information disclosed to you by third parties.
You must comply with applicable policies and guidelines, e.g., the information protection guideline and the guideline on the use of the BASF-Wide Web. If you are unsure what constitutes proprietary information, you should consult your manager, the
competent information protection officer or the legal department.
As an employee, you may have access to material, non-public information about BASF or the affairs of a third party which, if disclosed, could impact the value of publicly-traded securities,
in particular the BASF share. Insider trading laws prohibit making personal use of such information and/or disclosing it to third parties, including friends or family. Examples include information relating to the intended sale of substantial parts of the company, the acquisition or merger of businesses, undisclosed data on profits or particularly promising research results.
Individual criminal and civil liability may result from the violation of applicable insider trading laws.
If you are unsure what constitutes proprietary information, you should consult your manager, the competent information protection officer or the legal department.
Protection of Data Privacy
BASF is committed to respecting the privacy and integrity of its employees and its business partners. We adhere to strict standards when processing our employees’ personal information and our business partners’ data. All personal data collected and held by BASF will be processed fairly, transparently, carefully and in compliance with the locally applicable data privacy laws.
Access to personnel records is restricted to BASF employees and agents who have appropriate authorization and a business need for that information. Confidential employee information shall not be disclosed to anyone outside the company without proper authorization or unless required by law.
In case of any doubt, you must consult the Data Protection Officer or the legal department.
We value and protect data privacy. Personal data is collected and processed only for legitimate business reasons in full compliance with the locally applicable data privacy laws.
Imports and Exports
Various national and international trade laws restrict or prohibit the import and export of products or services  that BASF sells. These restrictions are based not only on the nature of the product, but also on the country of origin or destination and, sometimes, even on the identity of the customer (embargo). Similar restrictions may apply to the export of technology and software. Country-specific embargoes are in place for certain countries.
No person or company subject to the jurisdiction imposing an embargo may participate or assist in the import or export of goods or services from or to a country, its citizens or residents subject to an embargo.
In addition, the provisions of the Chemical Weapons Convention and the laws and international conventions regulating trafficking and dealing in narcotics, psychotropic substances or addictive
substances are particularly important to our company. Therefore, none of our employees must buy, produce or sell chemicals or other substances if this violates these regulations. Without an express permit from the relevant authorities and the voluntary declaration of final destination required by BASF for certain products, no substance or technology subject to legal control
or voluntary self-monitoring by BASF may be exported or sold. Where required by law, products must be kept under lock and key.
All employees must comply with the control regulations when buying, producing or marketing goods or when transferring or acquiring technology.
Protection of Company Property and Property of Business Partners
You are required to handle company property in a responsible manner and to protect BASF assets against loss, damage, theft, abuse and unauthorized use.
Company property also includes intangible assets such as proprietary knowledge, intellectual property rights and copyrighted material.
Company computers and other equipment are furnished for work, not for personal use. Accordingly, you should only load software onto them that has been properly licensed.
Without the express consent of the relevant unit, company property may not be used for private purposes or removed from the company’s premises.
All employees must comply with the relevant corporate policies covering the protection of company property.
Handle company property with care.
Money Laundering
Money laundering means the introduction of assets (not only cash) originating from criminal offences into the regular financial and economic cycle. Money laundering is a criminal offence in the Member States of the E.U., the United States, China and various other countries.
No employee, either alone or in collaboration with third parties, may take measures that violate applicable regulations on money laundering.
Where questionable financial transactions involving transfers of cash or cash equivalents are requested, prior review by and approval from your treasurer is required.
Be aware of potential questionable financial transactions and ask for clarification.
Amendments to the Code of Conduct
BASF SE’s Board of Executive Directors is responsible for approving and issuing the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct will be periodically reviewed by BASF SE’s Chief Compliance Officer and legal department to determine whether revisions are necessary in light of changes in the law, and to ensure that our employees meet the high ethical and legal standards we expect. BASF SE’s Board of Executive Directors will be responsible for approving any revisions to the Code of Conduct.
 tact details for your respective Compliance Hotline can be found on the BASF Intranet under compliance.basf.net/hotline.
You will find more details regarding BASF’s Compliance Program on the BASF Intranet under compliance.basf.net.
Further Information on the BASF Internet under
www.basf.com/code-of-conduct.
 

Bayer Healthcare
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct for Responsible Lobbying


Bayer's lobbying and advocacy activities are guided by the following principles which apply also to our consultants in this field: Transparency and openness are guiding our lobbying activities.

Bayer respects the national laws of each of the jurisdictions in which the company carries out lobbying activities.

Lobbyists of the company as well as consultants shall:

1.  identify themselves by name and by the Bayer organization they are representing;

2.  not misrepresent themselves as to the effect of registration (where existing) to mis- lead third parties and/or staff of public authorities;

3.  openly declare the company’s business interests;

4.  ensure that information provided reflects up-to-date company knowledge, is com- plete and not misleading;

5.  not obtain or try to obtain information, or any decision, dishonestly;

6.  not induce staff of public authorities to contravene rules and standards of behaviour applicable to them.

If the company employs former staff of public authorities we respect their obligation to abide by the rules and confidentiality requirements which apply to them.
Bayer – i.e. its lobbyists – signs up in lobbying registers of public institutions (where existing) and discloses relevant aggregate costs of lobbying.

Bayer does not make any donations as a company to political parties, politicians or candidates for a political office. The associations of which Bayer is a member make donations under their own responsibility and according to the relevant legislation in each case, in particular taking account of laws on political parties.
Board of Chemistry (Philippines)
Region: WEOG
Country: Philippines
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Code of Ethics
Board of Chemistry
Section 1. Every chemist, upon being admitted into the profession, shall be entitled to the full
professional fellowship of his fellow chemists and shall be obliged to advance the art and science of
chemistry, to safeguard and uphold its standard of honor, and to conform to as well as abide by the
principles of ethical conduct set forth herein.
Section 2. It shall be the duty of every chemist to observe faithfully the laws, rules and
regulations and to bear the responsibilities pertaining to his profession.
Section 3. A chemist shall not deliberately engage in work which by its nature is illegal or
immoral, nor shall he cooperate with those who are so engaged.
Section 4. He shall refrain from associating with, or from the following, the use of his name by,
persons or entities of questionable character.
Section 5. He shall not act in any manner or engage in any activity or practice that casts, or
tends to bring, discredit or dishonor to the dignity of the chemistry profession.
Section 6. He shall perform his professional work in a manner that is not only fair and
reasonable to employers, subordinates, contractors, and clients but also in a spirit of friendliness and
harmony with the other members of his profession.
Section 7. He shall advertise only in a dignified and conventional manner, taking care not to
cheapen the profession by using vulgar notices or false and misleading statements.
Section 8. He shall assist in improving and elevating the standard of the profession by
exchanging relevant information and experience with his fellow chemists through the press or technical
societies of which they are members where such information does not conflict with the interest of his
client or employer. It is desirable that chemical inventions and researches be first published in scientific
journals and magazines instead of in the newspapers and that due care be taken so that credit for such
technical work is given only to the real authors or inventors thereof.
Section 9. If, in his opinion the work requested of a chemist by his clients or employers poses
certain doubts as to its being productive of successful results, he shall so advise them before
undertaking the work.
Section 10. He shall be conservative in all his estimates especially so if these pertain to the
promotion of business enterprises and shall endeavor to be fair and accurate in his reports, testimony,
statements, etc.
Section 11. For any kind of work done, he shall not accept compensation, financial or
otherwise, from any party or parties interested therein except from the one who engaged his services.
He shall not accept any commission from outside parties on sales to clients or employers without their
knowledge or consent. He shall, however, be free to accept employment from more than one employer
where there are no conflict of interest.
Section 12. He shall not resort to any unfair, improper or dubious method in securing
professional work and shall decline to accept payment or commission for such work.
Section 13. In securing professional work or employment, he shall use only fair and honest
means and shall refrain from injuring whether directly or indirectly, the professional reputation,
prospects or business of his fellow chemist. In work or employment already given to fellow chemists, he
shall not seek to have them replaced in order to promote his own interest.
Section 14. He shall not knowingly accept employment from a client or employer against whom
there is a pending claim for compensation and/or damages filed by a fellow chemist previously
employed by the same client or employer, until such claim is finally settled through arbitration or by the
courts of justice or is not pressed through sheer neglect or abandonment.
Section 15. It shall be his duty to expose and bring to the attention of proper authorities any
error, fraud, deceit or irregularity committed by fellow chemists in the practice of their profession, of
which he has knowledge.
Section 16. He shall report any infraction of these rules and professional conduct to the Ethics
Committee of the national association of chemists for proper appraisal so that if the facts so warrant,
the matter may be referred for appropriate action to the Board of Examiners for Chemists or to other
legally constituted authorities with jurisdiction over such infractions.
Section 17. He shall not compete or attempt to compete with fellow chemists by reducing or
offering to reduce the usual rates charged for his work in order to underbid his competitors.
Section 18. When holding any government position or office of public trust, he shall not take
undue advantage thereof nor shall he engage in activities offering competition or causing damage to
private practitioners of the profession.
Section 19. He shall not accept any engagement to review the professional work of his fellow
chemists, except journal articles, scientific publications and similar matters, without the knowledge of
such chemists unless their connection with the work is completely severed.
Section 20. Upon undertaking work for a client or employer, he shall enter into an agreement
regarding ownership of any and all data, plans, improvements, patents, designs or other records which
may develop or discover while in the employ of such a client or employer. In the absence of a written
agreement, the following principles shall be held to apply:
a. When a chemist uses information obtainable only from his client or employer, which
is not common knowledge or public property, any result in the form of design, plans, inventions,
processes, etc., shall be regarded as the property of the employer.
b. When a chemist uses his knowledge or information or date which by prior publication
or otherwise is public property, then the results in the form of designs, plans, inventions,
processes, etc., remain the property of the chemist, and the client or employer is entitled to
their use only in the case for which the chemist is retained.
c. All work and results accomplished by the chemist outside of the field for which he
was employed or retained shall remain his property.
d. Special data or information obtain by a chemist from his client or employer or which
he creates as a result thereof is to be held and considered confidential, and while it is ethical to
use data or information in his practice as forming part of his professional experience, its
publication without prior permission of his client or employer is highly improper.
Section 21. He shall, as far as practicable, charge fees at such rates as are reasonable enough
to warrant complete and adequate service in consulting work. Extremely low charges for professional
services tend to produce inferior and unsatisfactory work; hence, in fixing the fees, it is proper to take
into account the following considerations.
a. The time and labor involved, novelty and difficulty of the work, and experience and
skill necessary.
b. Whether the employment precludes work along similar lines or involves financial
sacrifice due to giving up of other business.
c. Customary charges of chemists for similar work or services.
d. The magnitude of the matter involved and the benefits accruing to the client as a
result of the services rendered; and
e. The character of the employment, whether casual, temporary or permanent.
Section 22. While it is desirable that chemists engage in teaching and research and be
permitted to use their technical knowledge and skill in their service to individual clients, they should
strive not to prejudice the welfare of the profession by disregarding such factors as ordinary costs of
equipment, supplies and overhead expenses in charging fees for their services.
Section 23. After fixing a fair or reasonable fee for work done to a client, he should oppose any
effort on the part of the latter to have the fee reduced without valid or justifiable reason therefore.
Wherever compatible with selfrespect and the right to receive just and reasonable recompense for
services rendered, controversies with clients regarding compensation should be minimized, if not
altogether avoided. He should, however, not hesitate to apply to the courts for redress so as to correct
or prevent any injustice, deceit, or fraud perpetrated on him by his clients.
Section 24. This Code of Ethics shall take effect on its approval by the Office of the President.

BP
Region: WEOG
Country: UK
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Our Code
Our responsibility
Guiding you to make the right decisions
 Our values and behaviours are the foundation of our Code
What we value
Safety
Safety is good business. Everything we do relies upon the safety of our workforce and the communities around us. We care about the safe management of the environment. We are committed to safely delivering energy to the world.
Respect
We respect the world in which we operate. It begins with compliance with laws and regulations. We hold ourselves to the highest ethical standards and behave
in ways that earn the trust of others. We depend on the relationships we have and respect each other and those we work with. We value diversity of people and thought. We care about the consequences of our decisions, large and small, on those around us.
Excellence
We are in a hazardous business and are committed to excellence through the systematic and disciplined management of our operations. We follow and uphold the rules and standards we set for our company. We commit to quality outcomes, have a thirst to learn and to improve. If something is not right, we correct it.
Courage
What we do is rarely easy. Achieving the best outcomes often requires the courage to face diffi y, to speak up and stand by what we believe. We always strive to do the right thing. We explore new ways of thinking and are unafraid to ask for help. We are honest with ourselves and actively seek feedback from others. We aim for an enduring legacy, despite the short-term priorities of our world.
One Team
Whatever the strength of the individual, we will accomplish more together. We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective obligations.
Our Code – Our responsibility
Our Code is a public statement that BP is committed to doing the right thing.
It serves as a valuable resource to help employees and others make informed, ethical decisions.
Our Code includes references to relevant BP Requirements (BP Policies, BP Procedures and BP Practices) and other helpful tools and resources. Because no code of conduct can cover every possible situation BP relies on you to use good judgement and to speak up when you have questions or concerns.
Operating in over 80 countries, as we do, means there may be times when local laws, regulations or customs confl    with our Code. Whenever there is a confl        or a difference between an applicable legal requirement and our Code, you must apply the strictest standard. Do not follow customs that violate our Code.
Who must follow our Code
Our Code applies to all BP employees, offi  and members of the Board.
Business partners, including operated joint ventures and third parties, can have a direct impact on our reputation through their behaviour. For this reason, we want to work with business partners that share our commitment to safety and ethics and compliance.
We expect and encourage all our contractors and their employees to act in a way that is consistent with our Code. We will take appropriate measures where we believe they have not met our
expectations or their contractual obligations.
How we deliver is as important as what we deliver.
Employee responsibilities
    Read and be familiar with the information in our Code.
    Certify annually that you have acted in accordance with our Code.
    Act in a manner that is safe, ethical,  and consistent with applicable laws and
regulations, BP Requirements, BP values and behaviours and our HSSE goals.
    Raise questions and concerns if you become aware of possible violations of laws, regulations, our Code or BP Requirements.
    Co-operate fully when responding to an investigation or audit.

Additional responsibilities of managers
    Be a positive role model and support your team members by:

–   Creating an environment that is respectful and inclusive.
–   Encouraging them to speak up.
–   Listening and responding to concerns when they are raised.
–   Doing your part to make sure that no one experiences retaliation for speaking
    up or co-operating in an investigation.     
    Help your team members understand the principles and expectations of our Code,
        BP Requirements and applicable laws.
    Be consistent when enforcing our requirements and holding people accountable for their behaviour at work.
When should you speak up?
Each of us has a responsibility to speak up if we see something unsafe, unethical or potentially harmful. If you have a question, need help or want to raise a concern you have several options.
Please refer to the ‘How you can speak up’ decision tree on the opposite page for these options.
Zero tolerance on retaliation
BP does not tolerate retaliation.
We consider acts of retaliation to be misconduct. Retaliation can take many forms, for example: threats, intimidation, exclusion, humiliation, and raising
issues maliciously or in bad faith.
If you think that you or someone you know has experienced retaliation, contact any of the Speak Up resources listed in the Code.
Operating safely, responsibly and reliably
Our principles
We are committed to safety, protecting the environment and respecting the communities in which we operate.
We are committed to avoiding damage to the environment and related impacts on communities.
Our health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) goals are: no accidents, no harm to people and no damage to the environment.
Our expectations
Always operate safely and securely
Nothing is more important to us than the health, safety and security of our workforce and the communities in which we operate, and behaving responsibly towards our shared environment. We must be vigilant, disciplined, and always looking out for one another.
Threats, intimidation and violence will not be tolerated. Each of us is a role model for safety.
    Do not undertake work that you are not qualifi  to perform.
    Stop work, your own or others’, if you consider it unsafe.
    Play your part in protecting the environment – make it a personal priority.
    Be sure that your performance is not impaired, for example by a lack of sleep, alcohol, or any drugs – including prescription or over the counter medication.
    Speak up if you observe an unsafe or unhealthy working environment. Listen to others who speak up.
    Expect and encourage contractors and others with whom we work to comply with applicable HSSE requirements.
    Report any accident, injury, illness, or unsafe condition immediately. Never assume that someone else has reported or will report a risk or concern.
    Know the emergency procedures that apply where you work.
Our people
Our principles
Our people are key to BP’s success.
When we respect and value one another we succeed individually and as a company. We all have a role in maintaining a corporate culture based on respect and fairness.
Our expectations
Diversity and inclusion build teamwork and success
We value the unique contribution that each person brings to BP. We accomplish more when people from diverse backgrounds and with different talents and ideas work together in an environment where everyone can contribute and make full use of their talents.
    Treat everyone with respect.
    Encourage and listen to those who speak up.
    Be respectful of cultural differences.
Equal opportunity is a matter of fairness, respect and dignity
We treat everyone with fairness, respect and dignity. We expect those we work with to act in a way that is consistent with our sense of fairness and equal opportunity.
    Base your work-related decisions on  merit – not on race, colour, national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by applicable laws.
    Offensive messages, derogatory remarks and inappropriate jokes are never acceptable.
Provide a workplace that is free from harassment and intimidation
We do not tolerate any form of abuse or harassment. This includes actions that can reasonably be considered as offensive, intimidating or discriminatory, as well
as any form of sexual harassment.
Remember that harassment does not have to occur in the workplace or involve a BP employee to violate our Code or the law.
    Help create a work environment free of all forms of harassment.
    Inappropriate comments of a sexual nature or any other sexually offensive behaviour will not be tolerated.
Protecting personal information
BP respects the privacy of its employees and will only take an interest in what employees do outside of work if it affects BP’s reputation or legitimate business interests. We only use personal information when needed to operate effectively or comply with the law.
    Label and treat personal information as ‘confi  .
    If in doubt, consult your local privacy co-ordinator.
Our business partners
Our principles
We work with our business partners in an honest, respectful and responsible way. We are
a company on which others can rely.
BP gains its competitive advantages through strong performance rather than through unethical or illegal business practices.
 Our expectations
Build and maintain strong relationships with suppliers and business partners
Our suppliers and business partners are essential to our ability to do business
and meet our stakeholders’ expectations. That is why we choose carefully and use an objective selection process.
We seek to work with others who share our commitments to safety and ethics and compliance.
    Communicate clearly our relevant expectations to our suppliers and business partners, agreeing contractual obligations where applicable. Take the appropriate measures if they do not meet those expectations or obligations.
    Report any indications that a supplier or business partner is not complying   with applicable laws or their contractual obligations.
    Make sure you know and follow the BP supplier-related requirements that apply in your business. This includes government contract requirements and joint venture requirements.
Appropriately exchange gifts and entertainment
We do not accept or provide gifts or entertainment in return for any business, services or confi    information,
or if the intent is to bias a decision.
    If there is a confl between BP’s gifts and entertainment requirements and applicable external gifts and entertainment requirements, follow the strictest requirement.
    Some gifts and entertainment are never acceptable as they may be illegal or could damage our reputation; for example, anything that could be seen as a bribe
or that is indecent or improper.
    Obtain Legal approval before paying travel expenses for government offi or agreeing to pay a per diem in connection with their travel.
Be proactive and manage confl of interest
A confl of interest may occur when your interests or activities affect your ability to make objective decisions for BP.
    Be aware of the many different ways in which confl  of interest can occur. For example:
–   Outside jobs and affi   with
    competitors, customers or suppliers.    
–   Working with close relatives, especially those who are government offi
–   Having an intimate relationship with another employee who can infl decisions such as salary, performance rating or promotion.
–   Serving as a board member of another organization.
–   Investments, including those of close relatives, which might infl   or appear to infl   your judgement.
    Disclose situations to your line manager that might create a confl      or even the appearance of a confl   Once disclosed, we then have the opportunity to better address the situation.
    Ethics & Compliance Registers (includes Gifts and Entertainment
& Confl of Interest)
    Non-executive Director Roles Guidance
    Global Guidelines on Handling Relationships in the Workplace
    Anti-Bribery and Corruption Requirements
    Anti-Money Laundering Requirements
    Competition and Antitrust Requirements
    International Trade Regulation Requirements
    Procurement Authority Requirements
 Avoid anti-competitive conduct
Competition and antitrust laws are complex and often fact specifi For this reason if you have any questions consult Legal.
    Do not engage in the following activities: any form of agreement or understanding with competitors to fi  prices, rig bids, allocate customers and/or restrict supply.
Respect international trade laws
We abide by the trade laws of all countries in which we operate including economic sanctions, import and export laws. Most countries in which BP operates impose restrictions on the movement of products across borders.
    Trade sanctions, including fi sanctions, are complex. If you are
involved in transactions, such as business dealings with a sanctioned country, entity, or person, you must ensure compliance with applicable trade laws.
    Products intended for import or export, including equipment, software, and technology, must be classifi in advance, and all required labelling, documentation, licenses and approvals completed.
If you have any questions speak to your line manager who will contact Legal.
Preventing money laundering
Money laundering is the process of hiding illegal funds or making them look as though they are legitimate. It also covers the use of legitimate funds to support crime or terrorism.
    Never become involved in money laundering.
    Know who you are doing business with by following our counterparty due diligence procedures.
    Raise concerns where you see them.
The governments and communities we work with
Our principles
We work together with governments and communities to contribute to sustainable growth, create jobs and invest in people.
Our expectations
Engage with communities and respect their rights and dignity
We want to be a trusted neighbour in the communities where we operate and live. Maintaining an open, ethical stance and respecting diversity, local cultures and customs make a positive difference. We encourage participation in the local community.
    Notify your line manager or your local Communications and External Affairs team in advance of speaking with representatives of community organizations or non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
Commitment to human rights
We seek to conduct our business in a manner that respects the human rights and dignity of people. Each of us can play a role in the elimination of human rights abuses such as child labour, human traffi king and forced labour.
    Report any human rights abuse
in our operations or in those of our business partners.
Stand fi    against bribery and corruption
We do not tolerate bribery and corruption in any of its forms in our business.

We comply with anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations and support efforts to eliminate bribery and corruption worldwide. We work to make sure that our business partners share our commitment.
    Do not offer or accept bribes, kickbacks or any other kind of improper payment including facilitation payments.
    Keep accurate books and records so that payments are honestly described and company funds are not used for unlawful purposes.
    Know who you are doing business with by following our counterparty due diligence procedures.
Public communications and protecting BP’s reputation
It is essential that our public communications are clear, accurate, consistent and responsible.
    Remember that your social posts and comments are not anonymous and can negatively impact BP’s reputation.
    Only authorized persons can talk to the media or members of the investment community; contact the Press Offi
Our stance on political activity
In accordance with applicable laws,
BP exercises its right and responsibility to make its position known on relevant
issues. As an individual, you have the right to personally participate in the political process, including making personal political contributions. However, you need to
make it clear that your personal views and actions are not those of BP.
    Do not use company funds or resources to support any political candidate or party.
 or Investor Relations for advice.      
    External presentations can be an excellent way to share our expertise with others, but make sure you have the required approvals before accepting any invitation and obtain the necessary approvals
on content.
    Obtain approval before engaging in any lobbying activities.
    Personal political activities can sometimes create a confl  with BP. Talk to your
line manager if you or a close relative are planning to accept or seek a public offi
or if any other political activity might have an impact on BP or on your job.
Our assets and financial integrity
Our principles
We have a responsibility to protect shareholder value, take care of our assets and resources and to be honest and transparent about our operations and performance.
Our expectations
Maintain accurate and complete information and records
All of us contribute to the process of recording fi and non-fi
information. While protecting our interests, we must be open and honest about our business and performance – good and bad.
Business partners, government offi and the public rely on our accurate and
complete disclosures and business records. Such information is also essential within BP so that we can make good decisions.
    Ensure all transactions are properly authorized, recorded and reported, as required.
    Follow applicable laws and BP Requirements when creating, maintaining, retaining or destroying documents including those in electronic formats.
    Make sure you have the necessary approvals when you respond to a request for information from a government or regulatory agency.
Protect BP’s assets
We are all responsible for protecting BP’s assets. Company assets include facilities, property and equipment, computers
and IT systems, information, corporate opportunities and funds.
    Be conscientious and act appropriately to ensure company assets are not damaged, misused, or lost.
    Make sure your user IDs and passwords are secure.
    Computer equipment, phones, email and internet access are provided for business
Do not engage in insider dealing
You may become aware of information about BP that is not publicly available, and that would likely be considered relevant  to an investor when deciding whether
to invest or not in BP securities (‘inside information’). Trading in BP securities when you have inside information, or sharing it with others is illegal and can result in severe penalties.
    Never buy or sell any BP securities if you have inside information.
    Never spread false information to manipulate the price of listed securities.
purposes and monitored regularly to     
help BP defend against cyber-attacks and malicious activity. Limited personal use will usually be acceptable.
    Protect BP information. When handling confi and secret information
be especially careful by encrypting it when required and sharing it only with authorized parties. Do not share BP information in public forums or on social media.
    Be vigilant against cyber-attacks and scams such as phishing and report immediately any incidents, including potential or actual losses of BP information or assets.
    Guard our intellectual property and respect the intellectual property rights of others.
    Trading indirectly when in possession of inside information, for example through family members or others, or providing ‘tips’ is also prohibited.
    Follow the same principles in relation  to inside information in respect of other listed companies.
    Remember these rules continue to apply
   when you are no longer a BP employee.    
If in doubt, check with Legal or the Company Secretary’s offi 



Braskem
Region: GRULAC
Country: Brazil
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct
Revision 2 – September 12, 2011

PREAMBLE
An Employee is anyone who receives direct remuneration and benefits from BRASKEM and does not include those individuals that are independent contractors.
The guidelines established in the current Code of Conduct shall apply to all Employees, Officers and Directors of BRASKEM.
GENERAL GUIDELINES
1.  RELATIONSHIP WITH EMPLOYEES
The criteria for employment and promotion is an ability to meet the basic requirements for each job. Braskem does not discriminate based on religion, philosophical or political beliefs, nationality, origin, gender, age, color, sexual preference, marital status or physical or mental handicap.
2.  EMPLOYEE CONDUCT
BRASKEM expects its Employees to comply with established company procedure when performing their jobs, as well as the same level of care and diligence any person normally employs in his or her personal affairs. In other words, honest and trustworthy conduct in compliance with society’s laws and ethical standards is expected of each Employee.
BRASKEM expects all company matters, without exception, to be treated with confidentiality.
BRASKEM will readily and rigorously investigate any suspected fraud, theft, robbery, incorrect accounting records, misappropriation or any other crime, misdemeanor or illicit act, as well as those acts that do not comply with the business procedures established by BRASKEM.
3.  WORK  ENVIRONMENT
BRASKEM expects all interactions between Employees to be cordial and respectful, regardless of an Employee’s position or job. All dealings between Employees should demonstrate trust, respect and honesty.
Each and every Employee of BRASKEM is responsible for ensuring a labor environment free of rumors, actions or restrictions of any kind that would cause embarrassment or harm to another Employee. Harassment of any type, including, but not limited to, sexual harassment is unacceptable. Any conduct that may be characterized as sexual bullying or harassment must be reported to your Team Leader, or the Ethics Committee. If this type of behavior or conduct is verified, the appropriate disciplinary measures will be taken against the responsible party.
To ensure the well-being, safety and productivity of all Employees, the possession and/or the consumption of illicit drugs and alcohol is prohibited in the workplace or elsewhere on company property. Carrying or storing guns, except by those persons expressly authorized by the company and who are responsible for the safety of the Employees and for the company’s assets is also prohibited in the workplace or elsewhere on company property. Even where local law permits, the Company recommends that Employees refrain from carrying or storing guns in the workplace or elsewhere on company property
BRASKEM will not accept any intrusion into the private life of an Employee, within or outside the work environment, by another Employee.
4.  RESPONSIBILITIES WHEN CONDUCTING BUSINESS
Employees must conduct BRASKEM’S businesses with transparency, strict compliance with the law and respect for human rights and the environment and for the company’s principles and guidelines.
BRASKEM’S Employees are responsible for taking the appropriate steps should they become aware of irregularities practiced by third parties that may compromise BRASKEM’S name and interests.
All transactions that involve BRASKEM must be supported by appropriate documentation and must conform to all legal formalities.
As stipulated in the Company’s Bylaws, all contracts must be signed by two Officers, or one Officer and one power-of-attorney, or two powers-of-attorney with specific powers. It is expressly prohibited to sign contracts of any nature without the review and initials of the Legal Department, except when otherwise authorized by Company norms and procedures.
4.1.    Employees’ Responsibility
It is the obligation of every Employee to be aware of and comply with the provisions of the Code of Conduct and to ensure contractors and service providers are informed of the Code of Conduct.
Employees will also be responsible, within their area of responsibility, for preserving BRASKEM’S name and image.
Employees should guide their relations with customers and suppliers by the principles of transparency and correctness, ensuring alignment with their respective leaders in all situations of doubt or potential conflict.
4.2.    Leaders’ Responsibility
Leaders, especially through the dedication of their time, their presence and experience and, above all, through their example, have the obligation of ensuring their subordinates and all other Employees comply with the Code of Conduct, and they shall:
Disclose to their subordinates the contents of the Code of Conduct and make them aware of their need to comply with it, thus avoiding the possibility of any Employee, service provider or contractor committing a violation due to lack of information;
Identify any Employees that may have violated the Code of Conduct and discuss the matter with BRASKEM’S Ethics Committee;
Create a culture that generates compliance with the Code of Conduct and encourages Employees to forward their questions and concerns as regards its application.
5.  COMMERCIAL  RELATIONSHIPS
BRASKEM expects its Employees to conduct their commercial relationships in compliance with all legal requirements, with special attention paid to those legal requirements whose purpose is to ensure competitive markets.
It is expressly prohibited for any BRASKEM Employee to make any improper, doubtful or illegal payment, or to favor, through the concession of undue benefits or outside usual trade practices, any particular Client or Supplier, to the detriment of other Clients and Suppliers. It is also expressly forbidden to make payments or grant privileges or advantages to public officials or similar persons, whether directly, or through third parties.
5.1 Relations with Clients
A satisfied Client is the foundation of BRASKEM’S existence. Therefore, it is a basic principle of BRASKEM’S corporate action to serve the Client with a focus on quality, productivity and innovation, with social, community and environmental responsibility, and with full respect for the laws and regulations relating to each product in the regions in which the compay operates.
Clients must be serviced with courtesy and efficiency, by providing them with clear, accurate and transparent information. A Client must obtain answers to his/her requests, even if they are negative, adequately and within the expected timeframe.
Meals, transportation, accommodations and entertainment with or for clients is acceptable, provided that it is justified by the nature of the transaction or by normal business practice and courtesy and is within reasonable limits and without the expectation of a quid pro quo.
5.2.    Relationship with Suppliers
The selection and contracting of Suppliers must always be based on technical, professional and ethical criteria, aligned with BRASKEM’S general guidelines, and conducted through an objective and predetermined process, such as competitive bidding or price quotation, which ensures the most cost-effective relationship.
The relationship with a Supplier should be lasting, without any prejudice to the principles of free initiative and honest competition.
5.3.    Relationship with Competitors
The competitiveness of the products manufactured and/or commercialized by BRASKEM must be based on free and unfettered competition.
No statements, either verbal or written, that may negatively affect the image of competitors or contribute to the spreading of rumors about them may be made. Competitors must be treated with the same respect as BRASKEM expects to be treated.
It is expressly prohibited to provide strategic and/or confidential information relating to BRASKEM or its businesses to any third party, including, but not limited to, competitors.
It is expressly prohibited for any Employee to make, enter into or continue any agreement with BRASKEM’S competitors with the intent or the result of establishing pricing and sale conditions, adopting or influencing the adoption of a uniform or pre-arranged commercial arrangement, sharing markets or subordinating the sale of one product to another.
5.4.    Relationship with Family Members
Family members are any of the following: spouse, partner, parent, sibling, child, uncle/aunt, nephew/niece or cousin (first or second) as well as those relatives of the spouse or partner.
If an Employee wishes to do business on behalf of BRASKEM with a family member or with someone with whom his/her family member may have a close personal relationship, or with companies in which such people are employed or have a controlling interest, such Employee must first obtain prior written permission from his/her Leader, who will discuss the matter with BRASKEM’S Ethics Committee.
5.5.    Relationship with Government Officials and Candidates
It is expressly prohibited for any BRASKEM Employee to offer or promise, directly or through third parties, payments, gifts or benefits to public officials (elected or appointed), political parties, and candidates for public offices, as well as their family members with the intent of obtaining any benefit for the company.
If an Employee wishes to donate to public officials (elected or appointed), political parties, or candidates for public offices, such Employee must do so as a private citizen, not as a BRASKEM representative. BRASKEM may make donations as long as they are made in compliance with internal company procedures and within local legal requirements
6.  GIFTS, FAVORS, PREFERENCES AND BENEFITS
BRASKEM’S Employees and their family members must not give or accept personal gifts, favors, preferences or benefi to/from Clients, Suppliers, or competitors, which have a value above US$ 100.
Personal gifts, favors, preferences or benefits with a value of US$ 100 or more received as a result of commercial relationships (whether actual or potential), must be reported to and approved by BRASKEM’S Ethics Committee. In cases where the Ethics Committee approval is not forthcoming, the gift, favor, preference or benefit must be declined or returned to the giver with appropriate appreciation and an explanation for the need to return it.
 7. CONFLICT OF INTEREST
A conflict of interest occurs when an Employee influences, or may influence, a decision taken by BRASKEM that results, or may result in some personal gain, direct or indirect, to him/herself, members of his/her family or friends.
Employees must take care so that their actions do not conflict with BRASKEM’S interests nor cause any damage to its image and reputation.
As examples, below are some situations that constitute a conflict of interest:
To have a personal interest in a particular situation that may affect your capacity to evaluate a business of interest to BRASKEM;
To disclose confidential information that, if used, may generate personal advantage;
To accept direct or indirect benefits that may be interpreted as an inducement to obtain a favorable result for the giving party with respect to BRASKEM’s business;
To use privileged information to trade shares of companies with which BRASKEM has a relationship (Clients, Suppliers, service providers or competitors) or to provide this information to third parties;
To use BRASKEM’S resources to further personal interests;
To use commercial relationships for personal gain or advantage;
To hire family members, or request that another Employee do so, outside the established company hiring procedure or without compliance with company criteria relating to employment;
If an Employee faces any situation involving a conflict of interest or becomes aware of another Employee’s potential conflict of interest, he or she must promptly inform their Leader, who may resolve the issue or discuss the matter with his or her Team Leader, or with BRASKEM’S Ethics Committee.
 8. ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE BRASKEM
BRASKEM’S Employees must not participate in any activity or be involved with any organization that may result in their inability to perform their job, nor adopt any behavior that may generate a conflict of interest with their responsibilities or participate in any activity that may compromise BRASKEM’S integrity, confidentiality or safety.
Due to the nature of their respective functions, the restriction on activities outside of BRASKEM, as described above, will not be applied to BRASKEM’S Board of Directors and Fiscal Counselors.
9.  RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Communications with the company’s shareholders shall be made through Employees in the Investor Relations area.
Relationships with the shareholders and investors must be based on accurate, transparent and timely communication of information in order to allow them to understand and follow BRASKEM’S activities and performance. Transparent and timely communication may allow BRASKEM to achieve better results, thereby increasing BRASKEM’S market value.
The treatment provided to shareholders is not dependent on the quantity of shares they hold. Information will be provided to all shareholders on equal terms.
10. PRIVILEGED INFORMATION – INSIDER TRADING
If an Employee has any relevant and privileged information about BRASKEM’S actions or financial results, they are prohibited by law from trading BRASKEM’S shares either directly or indirectly. They are also prohibited from disclosing such information to third parties.
BRASKEM expects its Employees to comply with all laws pertaining to the trading of shares as well as all policies, instructions or guidelines established by BRASKEM.
Any violation of this rule may expose an Employee to criminal and civil penalties under Brazilian legislation or the applicable laws in the countries where BRASKEM’S shares may be traded.
11. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AND UNIONS
BRASKEM does not impose any restriction on political and political party-related activities undertaken by its Employees as private citizens. However, Employees must always act as individuals in their political activities and not as Employees of BRASKEM so as not to interfere with their responsibilities to BRASKEM or to give the impression that they are representing BRASKEM.
It is expressly prohibited to exercise political and political party-related activities in the workplace or on company premises or that involve BRASKEM’S resources. Employees may not wear or exhibit company-provided clothing or BRASKEM’s logo when participating in political activities.
BRASKEM Employees are expressly prohibited from disseminating or displaying any forms of political material in the workplace or on company premises or on company vehicles or in any company sponsored publications or any other property owned or leased by or under the control of BRASKEM.
BRASKEM is a non-partisan institution and respects the rights of the Employees and third parties as individuals and their involvement with political and union activities. BRASKEM recognizes freedom of association and collective negotiations agreements.
12. USE AND PRESERVATION OF BRASKEM’S ASSETS
Employees are responsible for caring for the conservation of BRASKEM’S assets, which include, but are not limited to, facilities, machines, equipments, furniture, vehicles and intangible assets.
Access to the Internet and telephones, as well as the use of e-mail, software, hardware, equipment and other assets is restricted to the Employee’s professional activity, in compliance with BRASKEM’S policies, regulations or guidelines.
All data generated and maintained in BRASKEM’S information systems is the company’s exclusive property. Employees should be aware that the company has access to records relating to internet, e-mail, cell phone and telephone usage. Employees should have no expectation of privacy with regard to these matters.
13. PARTICIPATION AND USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA
In using the Internet and interacting through social media at any time, the Employee should clearly draw a distinction between personal communication and authorized business communication.
BRASKEM expects its Employees, when expressing a personal opinion in or on any media, to consider that this environment is public and that the contents of your message may cause damage to BRASKEM’s reputation, even though the author does not present himself or herself as a representative or spokesperson of the company.
Only persons authorized by the company may post on official company social media sites.
14. BRASKEM’S SPOKESPERSONS
Only certain specified Employees are authorized to speak on behalf of BRASKEM and to make comments related to BRASKEM to the press or external groups. Such authorization to speak on BRASKEM’S behalf will expressly be made in writing.
15. BOOKS OF ACCOUNTS
Transparency is fundamental to allow for the correct evaluation of BRASKEM by the market.
BRASKEM’S accounting norms and practices must be thoroughly complied with by generating consistent records and reports and allowing for a uniform basis for the evaluation and disclosure of BRASKEM’S operations and results. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that every asset, right or obligation of BRASKEM is accounted for.
16. NATURAL  ENVIRONMENT
The balance between the environment and environmental preservation at its industrial units, offi es and throughout its value chain are of fundamental importance to BRASKEM’S corporate activity.
BRASKEM is active in the preservation of the ecosystems where its industrial units are located, whether through zeal and care in the manufacturing, handling and transport of its products, or through the support provided to the preservation of natural resources. BRASKEM also supports the prevention of the wasting of natural resources and the promotion of preservation campaigns to make local communities aware of this issue in addition to supporting many different public and private projects related to the preservation of the environment.
The following are the responsibilities of each Employee:
To contribute to the conservation and enhancement of the natural environment and its ecosystems;
To become familiar with all policies and procedures adopted by BRASKEM as regards the natural environment;
To identify dangers, to evaluate risks and, whenever possible, to start corrective and preventive actions, as well as to inform his or her Team Leader of any such matter;
To immediately notify company officials of any accident and/or incident related to the natural environment (for example: leaks and emissions outside permitted standards) to allow for an investigation of the causes and to commission corrective and preventive measures; and
When applicable, according to the local legislation, to immediately inform any accident and/ or incident to the competent authorities.
17. EMPLOYMENT OF FORCED LABOR OR CHILD WORKFORCE
BRASKEM does not tolerate, nor does it permit or accept, the employment of forced labor and/ or child workforce in any activities related to the Company.
18. QUESTIONS
The guidelines of the current Code provide a number of examples in order to minimize the subjectivity of personal interpretations on moral and ethical principles; however, the guidelines do not necessarily detail all situations that may arise in the daily activities of each Employee. If there are any questions in the application of the current Code’s guidelines, Employees should consult their Team Leader or one of BRASKEM’S Legal Representatives.
19. VIOLATIONS
It is expected that all Employees will comply with this Code of Conduct in all circumstances.
Any Employee who violates a policy or procedure established by BRASKEM, or who permits a subordinate to do so, will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Any Employee that becomes aware of a violation of any aspect of the current Code of Conduct or has reason to think that there is violation, by any person, cannot be omitted and must inform their Team Leader or the Ethics Committee.
No Employee will be subject to retaliation for reporting a violation of the Code of Conduct unless it is determined that no such violation occurred and that the reporting thereof was done with malicious intent.
If an Employee wishes to maintain their anonymity in reporting a violation of the Code of Conduct, they may use the Ethics Line to communicate with the Ethics Committee using an internet-based application or a toll-free telephone line.
The Ethics Committee will determine the need for a more detailed investigation of any alleged violation.
20. ETHICS COMMITTEE
BRASKEM has a non-permanent Ethics Committee, which is responsible for judging the cases of greater severity as regards any violation of the Code and for imposing the applicable disciplinary actions, as well as for addressing any part of the Code which requires clarification.
The Ethics Committee is composed of at least 4 (four) members: Chief Counsel, the Enterprise Security responsible, the People and Organizational Leader, and another member as defined by the Chief Counsel. The decision on the fourth member is at the Chief Counsel’s sole discretion.
BRASKEM’S Chief Executive Officer may take part in the Ethics Committee at the request of the Chief Counsel or as required for the matter to be discussed.
The Ethics Committee will be convened at the request of one of the members of the committee and minutes shall be issued for the meetings held.
21. GENERAL DISPOSITIONS
The current Code of Conduct will be valid for an indeterminate period of time, and the Ethics Committee shall promote its disclosure and updating, on a bi-annual basis.
The guidelines on conduct contained in the current Code will be communicated to all of BRASKEM’S Employees, Suppliers and Contractors and will also be available at the website: www.braskem.com.
BRASKEM’S specific areas may establish their own policies and rules of conduct, which must be compatible with the current Code of Conduct and disclosed to the Employees of each such area.
Under no circumstances may an Employee claim ignorance of the guidelines contained in the current Code.
 25
Receipt and Commitment Term
I confirm that I have received a complete copy of BRASKEM’S Code of Conduct and am aware of all of its provisions.
I also confirm that I’ve been informed of the obligations of compliance for employment at BRASKEM and I commit myself to fully observing them.
I also confirm that in case there are situations for which the current Code does not expressly state a required or expected behavior, I shall immediately inform such fact to my Team Leader or to the Ethics Committee.
Name:
Business Unit/Support Unit:
Place and date:
Signature:
www.braskem.com
Chemical Business Association (CBA) and Chemical Industries Association (CIA)
Region: WEOG
Country: UK
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

2009 CODE OF CONDUCT ON CHEMICALS SUBJECT TO TRADE & SECURITY CONTROLS. CBA/CIA PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP GUIDANCE
I INTRODUCTION
KEY ELEMENTS OF THE CODE
a) Compliance requirements (bold = compulsory element of this code)
  Chemicals covered by the code are classified under each type of control and
are listed in Annexes 1-6. However any suspicious order or enquiry,
regardless of whether the chemical is listed or not, should be reported by
operators to the appropriate authorities.
  Each operator shall nominate one or more liaison officers as specified in
Section A
  Organisational arrangements (see Section B).
  Operators shall have administrative systems in place as specified in Section
C
  Security Code is at Section D
  Operators must co-operate fu lly with government and law enforcement
authorities (see Sections E & F)
o (Optional) Registration as an Authorised Economic Operator (Section G)
b) How to respond to a suspicious order/enquiry for a listed chemical
  If the enquiry/order is from overseas
Check if destination country restrictions apply
(fo llow instructions in Annexes 1-6)
Use the checklist provided in Section C to verify the bona fides of the buyer
Contact the appropriate regulatory authority by telephone using the list of
contacts at Section E.
  If the enquiry/order is from the UK
Use the checklist provided in Section C to verify the bona fides of the buyer.
If the enquiry raises suspicions (for example. because of consignment
size/special delivery requirements). telephone the appropriate regulatory
authority at Section E.
APPLICATION OF THE CODE
This Code of Conduct was jointly prepared by the Chemical Industries Association (CIA)
and the Chemical Business Association (CBA) and is supported by the Crop Protection
Association (CPA).
4
ISSUed August 2009
© CSA/CIA
 
This Code has been approved by the CIA, CBA and adopted by CPA and is intended to
apply to all members of these Associations. The provisions of this code shall be
communicated to all members of staff and management involved in chemicals trade and,
in particular, adequate training and instruction shall be provided for staff members to help
them identify 'suspicious orders or enquiries or "consent" and "non-consent", as
appropriate.
Information provided in conformity with the provisions of this Code will be treated in
confidence.
The compliance requirements on drug and explosive precursors, chemical weapon
classified chemicals and prior informed consent arrangements are under continual review
as are other security related controls. The legislative background and industry approach
to product stewardship, under the Responsible Care programme, is outlined in Sections 7
& 8. Definitions are listed in glossary (Section 9).
Many chemicals to which this Code of Conduct applies are also classified as 'dangerous
goods' within transport activities and as such subject to the ADR Chapter 1.10 Security
Provisions. These chemicals may invoke additional requirements to be applied to sites
holding or transporting them. Guidance documents are available on the Department for
Transport website www.dft.gov.uklsecurity/dangerousgoods
OBJECTIVES
The objectives of this Code are to enable operators to establish a common system of
practice to:
  Protect against the diversion of chemicals into the illicit production of drugs and
weapons of mass destruction, or any other programme based on aggression;
  Co-operate fully with government and law enforcement authorities in the controlled
delivery of chemicals destined for use in the illicit production of drugs and weapons of
mass destruction, where this is expected to lead to the apprehension and conviction
of criminals involved in such trade or production; and
  Promote sustainable trade in chemicals.
I SECTION A: THE APPOINTMENT OF COMPANY LIAISON OFFICERS
Compliance Officers/Responsible Officers
Each Association member shall nominate one or more compliance officers whose specific
responsibility shall be to promote best practice throughout the company and provide for
the full integration of export control and consent regulations with quality management and
Responsible Care systems. Companies involved with category 1 and 2 Drug precursor
chemicals are obliged to nominate 'Responsible Officers' to fulfil the requirements of the
legislation. These personnel can be the same liaison officer responsible for the other
sections within the code but will be subject to verification from the competent authority.
Given the varying size and structure of Association members within the UK it is for each
to decide for itself how best to establish its system of liaison officers. Whatever its
decision, the Association member shall advise IECC/SOCA, HSE, DECC and BERR of
the areas of responsibility of each compliance officer with the member's total business
organisation. Similarly the Association member shall notify the relevant contact point
within their Association (See Annex 3) so that the Association can notify members of
regulations and other changes to the code.
The Association member shall have a documented commitment to compliance and
a control inventory that identifies, by name, the scheduled substances manufactured or
traded which is the responsibility of each liaison officer. All of the Association members'
businesses and all scheduled substances shall be covered by liaison officers.
Whenever possible, the person appointed as compliance officer should already have a
certain status or position within the company, so as to be in a position to act as a
representative of the operator and to make the decisions that are required for the
fulfilment of his task. The responsible officer does not necessarily have to be a chemist.
One of the main skills required from this person is the ability to recognise suspicious
transactions, which requires "commercial alertness".
It is recommended that operators define clearly the position, tasks and powers of the
compliance off icer whom they appoint within the company. Section Z provides a
comprehensive job checklist that might be useful to develop a job description. The
information relating to the tasks and power of the compliance officer should be widely
disseminated th roughout the company. Drug precursor regulations require such a
description to be part of the file that the operators, dealing with category 1 substances,
have to submit to the competent authorities when applying for a licence and is also
recommended when registering for category 2 substances.
7
Issued August 2009
© CSA / CIA
--_.
 
The role of the compliance officer comprises the main following tasks:
Ensure proper implementation of the legislation within the company:
>- Ensure compliance with the administrative provisions of the legislation
(application for licences, registration of premises etc.)
>- Set up the internal procedures necessary to identify and notify
suspicious transactions and to prevent diversion (see Annex 3);
Exchange information with the competent authorities and disclose
suspicious operations.
Raise awareness of the re levant staff dealing with drug precursors:
>- Identify the most exposed personnel
>- Train and instruct this personnel on a regular basis
>- Make sure that the information provided by competent authorities as
regards new trends and developments, as well as infonmation that is
specific to the company, are known to the personnel.
8
issued August 2009
© CSAI CIA
Guidelines on identifying suspicious orders or enquiries
The operator must use discretion and draw upon experience to assess whether an order
or enquiry is 'suspicious'. A robust client screening process, especially for scheduled
chemicals (see Part III of the Code) would involve asking for end-use statements. These
are required for certain regulations but this practice should be adopted for all scheduled
chemicals. The checklist at Section Z will be a good starting point for develoPing internal
procedures. Major customers will grudgingly accept their necessity; law-abiding but
knowledgeable customers will welcome the "warning"; unscrupulous customers often
withdraw their order. To assist liaison officers and companies involved with the chemical
industry identifying suspect enquiries, orders and transactions, the following may identify
potential suspicious transactions:
Client identification
  Is the enquirer a new customer? If so, use Internet searches such as Companies
House, Google Earth, Royal Mail to check address and postcode and Yell.com to
determine if the company is listed.
  Is the enquirer a walk-in customer arriving unannounced?
  Is the enquirer's appearance, as you would expect?
  Is there a reluctance or refusal to give a 'Iandline' telephone number Or address?
  Does the enquirer lack proper business acumen or refuse to give t rade & bank
references?
  Does the enquirer use proper business stationery? Does stationery have company
and VAT registration numbers.
  Is there a reluctance or refusal to provide an order in writing?
  Is the order destined for a company which is not known and does not have a
company website and which cannot be traced in trade di rectories?
  The client is not a member of a professional or trade association.
Business practices
  Delivery address or address from which the order was made appears to be a private
res idence or a PO Box.
  Is the customer ordering at irregular intervals?
  Is the enquirer will ing to pay an excessive price for a product or fo r rapid delivery?
  Is the enquirer willing to pay cash for the goods, even large purchases?
  Is the enquirer willing to pay the going rate without negotiating a better price?
  Is the order for a university/college or well-known company made by the usual
procedures but delivery is requested to a specific ind ividual?
  Is the enquirer trying to purchase on your website with a credit ca rd?
  Is the enquirer using cred it check business websites for credit rating such as
Experian.
  Flag all scheduled and watched chemicals on your sales order system.
  Is delivery requested to a third person whose activities or position are unconnected
with the supposed activities of the end-user?
11
Issued August 2009
© CSA / CIA
  Has the customer given the name of a different forwarding agent or
dealer/distributor as the ultimate recipient of the goods?
  Is the order from abroad where the method of proposed payment is not consistent
with financial transactions relating to that part of the world?
  Use of the Internet?
  Keep a watch on new customers as illicit purchases may start with innocent orders
and then switch to scheduled or watched chemicals after a few months.
Delivery methods
  Does the enquirer wish to collect the goods and/or use a private vehicle?
  Does the enquirer request purchase in small containers where goods are said to be
for industrial use?
  Is there a request for delivery by airfreight?
  Does the delivery or transport costs exceed the cost of the goods themselves?
  Is there a request for delivery via a dubious or complicated transit route?
  Asking for delivery in non-trade or unlabelled packages?
  Are taxes paid where export is claimed?
Use of the products
  Is the order for products in abnormal quantities?
  Has the enquirer indicated the intended use of the chemicals or apparatus ordered?
Is it consistent with its proper use or function?
  Is the order for more than one precursor or essential chemical?
  Is the order for glassware or laboratory equipment sufficient to set up a laboratory?
  Is the order for export to a country where there are no real manufacturing
requirements for the goods ordered?
  Is the order or purchase from companies with no obvious need for the products?
  Is the order for a combination of chemicals, which can be used, together in the illicit
manufacture of drugs?
  Does the order consist of scheduled chemical substances included in a long list of
non-scheduled products?
Record keeping
Write a set of Controlled Products work instructions that documents the internal features
to be followed including the preservation of evidence. This section provides some
fundamental guidance.
The following information for all transactions involving a scheduled or watched substance
shall be maintained for a period of not less than four years and shall be made available to
the appropriate government authorities upon request:
a) Name and address of the importer
b) Name and address of the consignee (if known, or where required under a
regulation)
'12
Issued August 2009
© CSA! CIA
c) Name and address of any other persons involved in the export transaction (i.e. the
physical movement of the goods) where such information is available.
d) Name of the scheduled substance
e) Quantity of the scheduled substance
f) Date of supply (ex premises)
Legal requirements relating to maintenance of records may vary from one scheduled
substance to another.
Home trade transactions
In the case of home trade transactions involving scheduled substances it is normal
commercial practice for records to be kept. These shall be made available to the
authorities upon request.
Export transactions
The UK's Export Control Office takes non-compliance with export controls very seriously.
You should make sure you read and understand all the terms and conditions of the
licences you are using and are able to supply documentation when asked to do so which
shows you have complied with those terms and conditions. If you have not already done
so, you should register for the Open General Licences you use on SPIRE at
www.spire.bis.gov.uk
Notification of suspicious orders or enquiries
The requirement to report suspicious enquiries shall extend to any transaction, regardless
of whether the goods are intended for export or domestic sale, and shall also cover
mixtures and compounds which contain scheduled substances which can be readily
extracted for the illicit manufacture of drugs or chemicals weapons. This is especially
relevant for mixtures at 30% and over. This includes instances when a client refuses to
make end use statements and/or abruptly withdraws their order.
Operators should have several pre-defined questions for new customers in mind no
matter whether it is an over-the-counter sale , a sale via a call centre or whether
chemicals are offered and sold via the Internet.
If the order or enquiry is suspicious, obtain as much detail as possible i.e.
  Description of individuals if face-to-face contact is made.
  Details of vehicles used, including make, model, colour and
registration number.
  If the customer makes a telephone enquiry, ask them to
support it with a fax.
If possible, delay the enquiry and make arrangements to re-contact the
customer. In the interim period, and as soon as possible, use this guide
to contact the appropriate authorities or a local police liaison officer.
13
Issued August 2009
© CSA! CIA
I SECTION G: REGISTERING AS AN AUTHORISED ECONOMIC OPERATOR
As of 1 January 2008 the EU commenced the Authorised Economic Operator (AEO)
scheme, an EU-harmonised accreditation regime for importers and exporters. The
introduction of AEO status aims at increasing security for shipments entering or leaving
the EU and will provide holders of an AEO certificate with certain trade facilitation
benefits.
Many within the supply chain will be able to benefit from certification as an AEO, including
customs agents, manufacturers, warehouse keepers, importers, exporters, freightforwarders
and carriers.
The AEO system
The aim of the AEO system is primarily to improve the security of the international supply
chain. Businesses involved in the international supply chain many choose to apply and, if
they meet certain criteria, be authorised for the status of AEO. They will then have an
internationally recognised quality mark. that demonstrates they operate within a secure
supply chain and that their internal customs controls and procedures are efficient and
compliant.
This status will result (among other things) in reduced interventions and delay when
goods are imported to or exported from the European Community. For example,
recognition of AEO status will enable businesses to have their consignments fast-tracked
through customs controls.
The introduction of the AEO standard is the EU's response to the need to secure
international supply chains and the introduction of the Customs-Trade Partnership
Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) in the USA.
Who can apply?
Any legal entity established within the EU that is involved in activities covered by customs
legislation that form part of the international supply chain could apply for AEO status.
This includes exporters, logistics operators, carriers, freight forwarders and customs
agents. Those wishing to obtain an AEO certificate must meet the specific requirements
corresponding to the AEO certificate of their choice.
There are three certificate types available:
1. AEO Customs Simplification Certificate;
2. AEO Security and Safety Certificate; and
3. AEO Customs Simplification/Security and Safety Certificate (a combination
of one and two above).
23
Issued August 2009
© CSA! CIA
I SECTION Z: CHECKLIST FOR COMPLIANCE OFFICERS
It is good practice to carry out a regular audit to ensure that standards in the control
compliance to international conventions are maintained. The following checklist of points
is provided as an aid to assist internal auditing for compliance. It is recommended that
Compliance Officers evaluate their internal compliance programmes at least once every
year.
1. Commitment to Compliance
  Has the Chief Executive Officer of your Company signed the Responsible Care
Pledge?
  Are Directors of the Company aware of their legal responsibilities in complying
with trade controls on chemicals?
2. Control Inventory
Do you ascertain on a regular basis:
  which chemicals are subject to controls by reference to the relevant international
conventions and national requirements?
  that the relevant requirements for each control measure are in place?
  that a control matrix for all controlled chemicals is in place?
  compile and maintain an inventory of controlled chemicals handled within your
company?
3. Responsible Personnel
  Has management accountability for internal compliance programmes for controlled
chemicals been assigned, e.g. is this indicated in the Company's organisational
chart, has delegation of responsibilities been clearly defined?
  Have adequate resources been provided (e.g. staff and access to documentation)
to implement the ICP for controlled chemicals?
  Has adequate awareness-raising and training for all employees been undertaken
to a level for them to reach and maintain proficiency and to develop the skills and
knowledge necessary to perform their responsibilities in regard to controlled
chemicals?
  Have ICP performance goals / targets / objectives been included into employee's
performance evaluations?
  Has provision has been made in written policy, plans, programmes and
procedures for achieving continuous improvement of the internal compliance
procedure for controlled chemicals?
  Has provision been made to ensure the identification and dissemination of all
legislation and requirements applicable to contiOlied chemicals?
  Is the Company striving for performance beyond legal compliance?
25
Issued August 2009
© CBA I CIA
  Have all employees who have taken on control responsibilities received the
necessary induction training or retraining?
  Do the performance agreements of these staff members include control
responsibilities as defined in your company's internal compliance programmes?
  Do staff have access to:
  This Code of Conduct?
  Regulatory websites?
  Relevant officials?
4. Information Management
  How does the Company keep up to date with the requirements in respect of each
of the International Conventions relevant to it, in regard to the chemicals controlled
by these Conventions?
  Does it ensure the identification and dissemination of all applicable policies,
legislation and guidelines on these Conventions?
  Does it maintain a reference list of sources of information and contacts and
distribute changes/updates to relevant personnel?
  Does it provide resources (e.g. access to documentation) on controlled chemicals
to the compliance officer?
5. Staff Training
  Has the Company Identified the skills and knowledge necessary to perform
internal compliance programmes for controlled chemicals? ..
  Has it developed adequate compliance training programmes, which fulfil the skills
and knowledge required of compliance officers?
  Does the Company conduct induction and refresher awareness raising and
training programmes for staff at all levels to reach and maintain proficiency and to
develop the skills and knowledge necessary to perform their compliance
responsibilities?
  Do all the re levant employees receive on an annual basis (or more frequently if
required) a general update on the general provisions of the Company's legal
responsibil ity for maintaining trade controls?
6. Authorisations
6.1 Company Registration Details
  Does it ensure that the details of the company in relation to the original
registration details at tile appropriate National Convention Authority are up to
date?
6.2 Product / Service / Countf1/ Permit
  Is the corr.pany's product range checked regularly against the appropriate
Intemational Convention(s) and national legislation?
26
IS3ued August 2009
© CBAI CIA
  Does the Convention(s) require the company to obtain a workable product /
service / country permit? Typically permit applications are required concerning the
type of goods, activity, services, destinations and phase of your company's
activity.
  Does the company ensure that the necessary permit application is made? Typical
information required on permit applications includes the country of destination,
end-user(s), and the technical specifications of the controlled goods.
  Is this a first order or a repeat order and have any permits been issued or denied
in the past?
  Once the permit has been issued, is it kept up to date, i.e. should the particu lars
relating to the business / controlled activity or goods contained in the permit have
changed, does the company notify the relevant authority and request re-issuing or
amendment of the permit?
  Does the company have accurate controlled chemicals end-use information?
  Does the company ensure that the end-use undertakings in the permit are valid?
  Does the company ensure that all sub-contractors handling controlled goods and
undertaking controlled activities, are registered with the Convention Control
Authority and where relevant any other appropriate control authority?
6.3 ImportinglTransferringlExporting
  Does the Company ensure that its instructions to the despatch department and/or
freight forwarder / agent / transporters are up to date?
  Does it ensure that its instructions are being adhered to by the freight forwarder /
clearing agent / transporters (e.g. return copies of export documentation within
reasonable time)?
  When there are non-compliance on the part the above-mentioned entities, does
the company revise or restate requirements and set a date to check on
improvement(s)?
7. Customer Information
  Does the Company assess customers and orders that may be unusual and carry
possible risks?
  Is the following basic customer information being collected, assessed and acted
on:
  Is re levant information obtained from a reliable source( s) about the potential
customers': bona fides, location, activities, and whether it is registered as an
end-user of controlled chemicals and is in possession of a va lid permit and
compliance record?
  Is the fin al end-user as well as the final end-use of the chemical established?
  Does the company establish if there are any national or international restrictions
or prohibitions on trade with the potential customer or the end-user, or that it is
not on one of various lists of entities of concern pu blished by the different
countries?
  Do the company's freight forwarders, transporte rs, agents, brokers, distributors
know the permit conditions re lating to the controlled chemicals as well as the reexport
thereof?
27
Issued August 2009
© C6A I CIA
  Does it ensure that the route and mode of transport of controlled chemicals will
not lead to their diversion for prohibited use?
  Does it establish the control track record of the country the company is
importing from or exporting to?
  Does it ensure that the necessary infonmation relating to customers reach those
responsible for permit processing within the company, e.g. ensure their access
to information about the customer's end-use of the company's products and
services, as well as end-user enquiries.
  Does it alert customers at an early stage of the need for end-use information,
e.g. when providing them with a quotation for products and services?
  Does it ensure that credit control information on customers' status is fed through
for export control checks?
  Does it check on an on-going basis that customers do not divert products and
services from the stated end-use(r.) to another end-use(r.), possibly in another
country, not approved by the Conventions, i.e. a destination subject to
restrictions or embargos?
  Does it ensure that it has a List of Advisory Questions for Customers and
makes marketing, sales, order processing and procurement staff aware of these
questions so that they can play their part in spotting any dubious business?
Does it let them know how to proceed if they do sense something suspicious,
e.g. consult the relevant national control authority.
8. Record Keeping
  Are traceable records of activities and goods, subject to end-user control by a
foreign supplier or its Government, maintained for period of at least four years (or
six for chemical weapon pre-cursors) so that queries about any activity or goods
subject to control may be readily checked and an adequate audit trail maintained?
This includes end-user requirements by the national control authority
  Has the Company established a policy for maintaining and storing of records,
which addresses the minimum time that records are to be kept, the mode of safe
keeping, as well as where records are kept?
  Is the record processing system regularly reviewed to ensure a logical sequence
for recording of controlled activities?
  Are the records, required to be kept under the penmits, easily accessible?
  Are all related documents filed together or accessible through common fi ling
fields?
9. Access to Premises
  Are visits or con act by other persons to the company premises in relation to
controlled activities and goods controlled?
  Is there policy and process in place to monitor vis its to the site as well as training
that has relevance to controlled chemicals and activities?
28
Issued August 2009
© CBA I CIA
  Are checks undertaken on persons/companies visiting and receiving training on
the company premises?
  Are records kept of visitors (foreign and local) to the company's premises where
controlled activities take place or where controlled chemicals are manufactured or
stored?
  Where considered appropriate, does the company communicate sensitive visits to
the relevant control authorities?
10. Provision for Audits
  Does the company audit its internal compliance programmes against the
recommendations in this Code?
  Is this part of its normal internal auditing programme?
29
Issued August 2009
© CSA / CIA
Chemical Industries Council of Malaysia
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Malaysia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Guiding Principles
These statements of philosophy of Responsible Care outline each Responsible Care signatory's
commitment to environmental, health and safety responsibility in managing chemicals. Responsible
Care signatories pledge to manage their businesses according to these principles:
To recognise and respond to community concerns about chemicals and our operations
To develop and produce chemicals that can be manufactured, transported, used and
disposed of safely
To make health, safety and environmental considerations a priority in our planning for all
existing and new products and processes
To report promptly to officials, employees, customers and the public, information on
chemical related health or environmental hazards and to recommend protective measures
To counsel customers on the safe use, transportation and disposal of chemical products
To operate our plants and facilities in a manner that protects the environment and the
health and safety of our employees and the public
To extend knowledge by conducting or supporting research on the health, safety and
environmental effects of our products, processes and waste materials
To work with others to resolve problems created by past handling and disposal of
hazardous substances
To participate with Government and others in creating responsible laws, regulations and
standards to safeguard the community, workplace and environment
To promote the principles and practices of Responsible Care by sharing experiences and
offering assistance to others who produce, handle, use, transport or dispose of chemicals
Chemical Institute of Canada (CSCT and CSC)
Region: WEOG
Country: Canada
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Adherence to the following principles is a requirement of membership. They were approved by the
CIC Board of Directors on March 9, 1996.
As professional chemists, chemical engineers or chemical technologists, the members of the
Chemical Institute of Canada and its Constituent Societies undertake:
to dedicate themselves to the highest standards of personal honour and professional
integrity;
to extend fairness and loyalty to associates, employers, subordinates and employees;
to accept and defend the primacy of public well-being.
In observance of these commitments, they shall:
practice their professions with honour, honesty, integrity, and dedication to the truth;
encourage and assist others in observing high professional standards;
act responsibly, fairly, and in good faith in discharging obligations to the public, their peers,
employers, and employees;
sign and seal only documents that have been prepared by them or under their direct
supervision;
accept remuneration and credit only for work performed and professional services rendered;
undertake only such work as they are competent to perform, and express opinions only on
the bases o fadequate knowledge and honest convictions;
decline to undertake any work that is fraudulent, illegal or unethical;
place the health, safety and welfare of all persons, and the reputation of their profession,
above any consideration of self- interest, and resolve any conflicts in favour of the public
good;
recognize and declare promptly any conflicts of interest arising from their professional
activities; and
seek to promote the understanding of the social and environmental consequences, as well as
of the benefits to the public, of the applications of chemistry, chemical engineering and
chemical technology.

Chemical Society of Japan
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Japan
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics



Basic Policies on Activities Concerning the Environment and Chemistry:

1. The Chemical Society of Japan will actively address environmental and safety issues associated with chemical substances as fundamental issues underlying all of its activities.

2. Every member of the Society will ensure that his/her academic activities in his/her area of expertise will be fully utilized for the best practicable resolution of environmental and safety issues for chemical substances.

3. For these purposes, a new structure will be established in the Society that will be charged with such tasks as:
  Fostering research on environmental and safety problems
  Increasing cooperation with academic societies in related disciplines
  Developing human resources
  Making recommendations to industries, governments, and the public
  Strengthening international cooperation    
Chevron
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Combined

Business Conduct and Ethics Code

Values

Our Company’s foundation is built on our values, which distinguish us and guide our actions. We conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. We respect the law, support universal human rights, protect the environment and benefit the communities where we work.

Integrity

We are honest with others and ourselves. We meet the highest ethical standards in all business dealings. We do what we say we will do. We accept
responsibility and hold ourselves accountable for our work and our actions.

Trust

We trust, respect and support each other, and we strive to earn the trust of our colleagues and partners.

Diversity

We learn from and respect the cultures in which we work. We value and demonstrate respect for the uniqueness of individuals and the varied perspectives and talents they provide. We have an inclusive work environment and actively embrace a diversity of people, ideas, talents and experiences.

Ingenuity

We seek new opportunities and out-of-the-ordinary solutions. We use our creativity to find unexpected and practical ways to solve problems. Our experience, technology and perseverance enable us to overcome challenges and deliver value.

Partnership

We have an unwavering commitment to being  a good partner focused on building productive,
collaborative, trusting and beneficial relationships with governments, other companies, our customers, our communities and each other.

Protecting People and the Environment

We place the highest priority on the health and safety of our workforce and protection of our assets and the environment. We aim to be admired for world-class performance through disciplined application of our Operational Excellence Management System.

High Performance

We are committed to excellence in everything we do, and we strive to continually improve. We are passionate about achieving results that exceed
expectations — our own and those of others. We drive for results with energy and a sense of urgency.

About the Business Conduct and Ethics Code

The Code helps us understand how Chevron’s values are put into practice every day.
Chevron’s Business Conduct and Ethics Code is built on our core values and highlights the principles that guide our business conduct. It provides questions and answers for situations that you might encounter on the job and lists resources for help or further information.
However, the Code cannot address every possible workplace situation or list all of Chevron’s corporate policies and procedures. Use it for guidance about our ethical standards and where to take your questions or concerns.
When each of us follows the Code, we communicate our commitment to the values that have made Chevron admired both as a business partner and as a valued citizen of the global community. It
is important to note, however, that violations of the Code, or the policies referred to in the Code, could result in discipline, including termination of employment or criminal prosecution or both.

Using the Code

    Read through the entire Code.
    Think about how the Code applies to your job, and consider how you might handle situations to avoid improper, illegal or unethical actions.
    Use the questions and answers to help clarify situations that you may encounter.
    If you have questions, ask your supervisor or manager or contact one of the resources listed in this Code.




Ethical Decision Making
Ethical decision making is essential to the success of our Company. Some decisions are obvious and easy to make; others are not. When faced with a difficult situation, asking ourselves the questions below can help us to make the right ethical decisions.
Four “yes” answers are required to qualify an action as ethical and in step with Chevron’s values.

1.  Is it legal?
If you think an action may be illegal, do not proceed. If you need information about which laws apply in a given situation, talk with your supervisor, manager or Chevron’s Law department.

2.  Is it consistent with Company policy, including our Human Rights Policy?
If the proposed action does not comply with Company policy, you should not do it.

3.  Is it consistent with The Chevron Way?
Consider whether the action would be consistent with our Company’s core values.

4.  If it were made public, would I be comfortable?
Ask yourself if you would make the same decision if you knew that it would be reported on the front page of tomorrow’s newspaper.
 
Our Role and Responsibility

Each of us has a responsibility to speak up.
All of us must obey the letter and the spirit of the law at all times, wherever we live or work. Each of the countries where our Company does business has its own laws, regulations and customs. Sometimes there can be significant differences from one place to another and between regions
within a single country. However, no matter where we work, we are all responsible for respecting all applicable laws and following the policies in our Code.
 
Authority

In addition to knowing and understanding this Code, each of us must understand the level of authority included in our job. We must all be careful to act within the limits of that authority.

Guidance

No code or manual can provide complete answers to all questions. In the end, we must rely on our good sense of what our Company’s high standards require. This includes knowing when to seek guidance on the proper course of action. We should expect timely and specific guidance from our supervisors, managers, the Chevron Law department, the Corporate Compliance group or our local compliance coordinators.

Some of us have jobs that require more detailed knowledge of particular compliance topics than this Code provides. In this case, our managers or supervisors will direct us to the appropriate information in the Corporate Policies and the

Manual of Compliance Procedures and Guidelines.

Compliance

Each of us must comply with this Code and with all Company policies. If we fail to do so, we may face disciplinary action, possibly including termination. Likewise, any supervisor, manager, officer or director who is aware of any violation and does not promptly report and correct it may be subject to similar consequences.
 
The Board Audit Committee, supported by the Corporate Compliance Policy Committee, made up of senior executives in the Company, governs our companywide compliance program. Each reporting unit has its own compliance or audit committee
to manage the responsibilities specific to that organization. This is also often the case for business units within the reporting units.

Reporting Possible Violations

Each of us must speak up promptly if there is any reason to suspect that anyone in Chevron or its affiliates has violated Company policies or local laws. We must also report any activity that could damage the Company’s reputation. One resource available
to each of us is the Chevron Hotline. You can call or submit a report to the Hotline, which operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

Non-Retaliation Policy

Chevron does not tolerate any form of retaliation for reports made in good faith. This includes blatant actions, such as firing, transferring, demoting or publicly attacking someone, as well as more subtle retaliation, such as avoiding someone, leaving him or her out of professional or social activities and so on. It includes actions taken by managers and employees alike.
 
Questions & Answers

QI observed a situation that I suspect is a violation of our guidelines. Should I report this
situation even if I am not completely certain that there is a problem?
AAll employees are responsible for immediately
reporting possible violations to their supervisors
or another Company resource. While reporting to  your supervisor is usually best, you may also call the Chevron Hotline. Your report will be taken seriously  and investigated as appropriate. It is better to report a suspicion that turns out not to be an issue than to ignore a possible violation of the law or Company policy.
QIf I see a questionable situation, is it better for me to call the Chevron Hotline or to talk to
my supervisor?
AYou do not have to call the Chevron Hotline if there is a way to resolve the situation through a
discussion with your supervisor, local management or your local Human Resources representative.
The Chevron Hotline is an option for people who  for some reason are not comfortable discussing the matter with their supervisor, local management or Human Resources representative.

Additional Resources

The Chevron Way

The Chevron Way explains who we are, what we do, what we believe and what we plan to accomplish. It establishes a common understanding not only for those of us who work here but for all who interact with us.

Manual of Compliance Procedures and Guidelines

Consult the Corporate Manual of Compliance Procedures and Guidelines (MCP&G) for more information about applicable laws, Company policies, and compliance procedures relating to all subject matter areas covered in the Business Conduct and Ethics Code.

Request Guidance or Voice Concerns

Contact your supervisor, your manager, Corporate Compliance or the Compliance liaison or coordinator for your reporting unit.
 
Chevron Hotline

Report any suspected violation of the law or Company policies. There are no negative consequences to raising concerns in good faith using the Hotline, and the Company assures employees that no retaliation will take place.
 
Our Employees

We value the uniqueness of individuals and the various perspectives and talents they provide.
We are our Company’s most valuable resource and are essential to its success. In the course of our daily work, we use our creativity, experience,
technology and perseverance to find innovative and practical solutions to all challenges that arise. Our values of Ingenuity and High Performance would be meaningless if Chevron did not have the highest- quality workforce possible and continually work to develop its employees.

We Respect Diversity

Diversity is also a fundamental value at Chevron. As stated in The Chevron Way, this means that “we learn from and respect the cultures in which we work.”
We also value “the uniqueness of individuals and the varied perspectives and talents they provide.” We promote diversity within our workforce and have an inclusive environment that helps each of us to fully participate and contribute to Chevron’s success.

We Provide Equal Opportunity

Our policy against discrimination aligns with our position on diversity. The Company follows the laws that prohibit discrimination in employment practices, wherever we do business. It is Chevron’s policy to provide equal employment opportunities and to treat applicants and employees without illegal bias. It is our policy that no one at Chevron should ever be subject to discrimination on the basis of:
    Race
    Religion
    Color
    National origin
    Age
    Sex
    Gender identity
    Gender expression
    Genetic information
    Disability
    Veteran status
    Political preference
    Sexual orientation
    Membership or nonmembership in any lawful organization

In the United States, discrimination is prohibited in hiring, rate of pay, promotion, demotion, transfer, layoff or termination. Many other countries have similar anti-discrimination laws.

Employee Compensation and Tenure

Our Company has a “pay-for-performance” philosophy. We administer wages, salaries and benefits to maintain our competitive position in the marketplace. It allows us to attract and retain
top-notch personnel, provide incentives and reward excellence. This approach to compensation supports our value of High Performance.
Chevron does not guarantee employment in a specific job or for any particular period of time to any employee.

Controlled Substances and Drugs

The Company prohibits the use, possession, distribution, purchase or sale of controlled substances on its premises while conducting business for the Company or while operating Company equipment.
Controlled substances include:
    Illegal drugs and narcotics
    Prescription drugs obtained or used without a legal prescription
    Other unlawful substances or materials

Alcohol

The use, possession, distribution, purchase or sale of alcohol by any person while on Company premises  or while operating Company equipment is prohibited unless prior permission has been obtained from appropriate Company management. In certain circumstances, such as official Company events, use of alcohol may be authorized as long as permission  is received in advance from appropriate operating
company or corporate department management. Any person under the influence of alcohol is prohibited from entering Company premises, engaging in Company business or operating Company equipment.

Any use of alcohol or any other substance that causes or contributes to unacceptable job performance or unusual job behavior is also prohibited.

Where allowed by law, the Company may conduct searches and test for drug and alcohol use.

In many locations worldwide, the Company makes resources available to assist employees with drug or alcohol problems. For information about Employee Assistance and WorkLife Services, consult the Human Resources website or contact your supervisor or local Human Resources representative.
 
Preventing Workplace Violence and Harassment
The Company prohibits actual or threatened violence against co-workers, visitors or anyone else who is either on our premises or has contact with employees in the course of their duties. Every threat of violence is serious. We must report any such event immediately.

Threats of immediate concern should be referred to Global Security or your local police department or both.

Chevron is also committed to a workplace free of harassment. If you are confronted with harassment, you should report your concern to your supervisor, local management, Human Resources representative or Chevron’s Hotline.

Questions & Answers

QI posted for a job in a different department whose staff consists of five males. The manager made
a job offer to a male. (I am a female.) I feel I may have been discriminated against. What can I do?
AIf you believe you are being discriminated
against, report this to your supervisor, a Human
Resources representative or the Chevron Hotline.

QYesterday I had an argument with a co-worker that almost escalated into a physical confrontation
when he challenged me to meet him outside. I believe he may try to harm me at some point. What can I do?
AReport this incident to your supervisor or
your local Human Resources representative. Threats
of immediate concern should be referred to Global Security or your local police department or both.
 
QI am a supervisor who has only one minority employee. Unfortunately this employee is having performance problems. I am afraid to give a negative review for fear of being accused of discrimination. What should I do?
AProvide consistent feedback to all members of your group. Be fair in your evaluation, and document your
proof with facts and examples. If you are accused of discrimination and have followed Company policies, the
Company will support you. If you need help, consult with your local Human Resources representative.

200:    Employment  226:    Discipline  263:    Drugs/Controlled  Substances
202:    Harassment  230:    Total Remuneration  264:    Alcohol
210:    Termination 256:    Labor Relations 570:    Security of Personnel and Assets

Additional Resources

Employee Assistance and WorkLife Services can help resolve personal, family and work-related concerns or problems, including help with drug or alcohol problems.
 
Human Rights

Chevron’s support for universal human rights is a core value in The Chevron Way.
Chevron’s Human Rights Policy reaffirms our longstanding support for universal human rights. We condemn human rights abuses. This commitment is encompassed in The Chevron Way vision and values
and other corporate policies that ensure we operate safely and responsibly and in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. Chevron’s position on human rights is clearly laid out in our Human Rights Policy.

What Are Human Rights?

Human rights are generally defined as basic standards of treatment to which all people are entitled, regardless of nationality, gender, race, economic status or religion.

Although governments have the primary duty to protect and ensure fulfillment of human rights, Chevron recognizes that companies have a responsibility to respect human rights and can also play a positive role in the communities where they operate.
 
Our Commitment

Chevron’s Human Rights Policy 520 states that  “We conduct our global operations consistent with the spirit and intent of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.”

This means that our policies and practices address four areas:
    Employees: We treat our employees with dignity and respect and promote diversity in the workplace.
    Security: We protect personnel and assets in a manner consistent with Chevron’s participation in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, a global initiative that provides guidance on companies’ engagement with security forces.
    Communities: We engage with communities to build upon our understanding of potential human rights issues in order to enhance the benefits of our projects and operations and manage potential impacts.
    Suppliers: We encourage our suppliers to treat their employees, and to interact with communities, in a manner that respects human rights.
 
Your Responsibility

All employees are required to comply with Human Rights Policy 520. This expectation includes the following actions:
    Conducting yourself according to the values in The Chevron Way and according to the
commitments outlined in Human Rights Policy 520
    Understanding and obeying local laws and acting consistently with Chevron’s policies and procedures
    Reading and acknowledging this Business Conduct and Ethics Code
    Reporting noncompliance with Human Rights Policy 520

For Additional Guidance

Please read Human Rights Policy 520 or contact the Policy, Government and Public Affairs (PGPA) department in your reporting unit or business unit.
 
Company Records and Internal Controls

Fair and accurate books and records are essential for managing Chevron’s business.
Our Shared Responsibility
Chevron’s books and records must be prepared accurately and honestly, both by our accountants  who prepare records of transactions and by any of us who contribute to the creation of business records,  for example, by submitting expense reports, job logs, measurements and time sheets. All of our books and records must be supported by enough documentation to provide a complete, accurate, valid and auditable record of each transaction.
 
Fair and accurate books and records are essential for managing Chevron’s business and maintaining the accuracy and integrity of the Company’s financial reporting and disclosure. This is true for both  reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and for other public communications. Our commitment to the value of Integrity is fundamental to the accuracy of financial reports the Company makes to the public.

Both Company policy and various laws, such as  the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), require the
completeness and accuracy of our financial records. Any attempt to conceal or misstate information in Company records is a serious offense and may result in disciplinary action and criminal prosecution. Each of us is responsible for reporting any suspected violations of the Company’s accounting policies
and procedures. You should report any suspected violation of these policies to your manager or supervisor, the Corporate Audit department or the Chevron Hotline.

Internal Controls

Reliable internal controls are critical for proper, complete and accurate accounting and financial reporting. Each of us must understand the internal controls relevant to our positions and follow the policies and procedures related to those controls. We are all encouraged to talk to our managers or supervisors immediately if we ever suspect that
a control does not adequately detect or prevent inaccuracy, waste or fraud.
 
Audits

Audits performed by our internal and external auditors help ensure compliance with established policies, procedures and controls. Audits also help identify potential weaknesses so they may be remediated promptly. All of us are required to
cooperate fully with internal and external audits. This means always providing clear and truthful information and cooperating fully during the audit process.

Fraud

Engaging in any scheme to defraud anyone —
of money, property or honest services — violates Company policy and the law and carries severe penalties. Those consequences apply to any dishonest or fraudulent activities, including misusing or stealing Company assets or falsifying a travel
and entertainment expense report, among other violations. The Company relies on its internal controls and the personal integrity of all its employees, contractors and directors to protect Company assets against damage, theft and other unauthorized use.

Questions & Answers

QI am not a manager. Can I be held legally responsible for failing to report Company
information accurately?
AYes. Although top management must sign off on our Company’s financial reports, every employee
records some transactions, and these all affect the financial reports. Be sure every transaction you record is accurate.
QLast week, I entered a transaction for an associate. I had several questions about the way the
deal was done. Even though my supervisor could not really answer the questions, she assured me that it was all “trustworthy” and that I should just plug in the numbers as requested. What should I have done?
AIt’s your responsibility to understand every
transaction you enter because you may need to
answer questions about its accuracy. You were correct to ask your supervisor for advice. Even though she approved the transaction, if you still have questions
related to the integrity of the transaction, you should feel free to ask a higher level of management or your reporting unit’s compliance coordinator or report your concern to Corporate Audit or the Chevron Hotline.
QMy supervisor told me to destroy documents related to a project that we did last year. Now, the
internal auditors are asking questions as though they are concerned. Since my supervisor told me to do this, I should not be in trouble, should I?
AThe auditor is not investigating to get anyone
“in trouble.” The auditor’s role is to ensure that our
Company follows required policies and processes.  You are responsible for understanding our document retention policies. If your supervisor told you to destroy documents that should have been retained, blindly following orders was not the right course of action. The best thing you can do now is to answer the auditor’s questions completely and honestly.

Avoiding Conflicts of Interest

We expect each other to act in the best interests of the Company.
At Chevron, we always expect one another to act in the best interests of the Company. This means that business decisions should be made free from any conflict of interest. They should also appear impartial. We must make our decisions based on sound business reasoning.

Conflicts of interest may occur when an individual’s outside activities or personal interests conflict or appear to conflict with his or her responsibilities to Chevron. An outside activity would be considered a conflict of interest if it:
    Has a negative impact on our business interests.
    Negatively affects Chevron’s reputation or relations with others.
    Interferes with an individual’s judgment in carrying out his or her job duties.

Employees and directors — and their close relatives – must never:
    Compete against the Company.
    Use their position or influence to secure an improper benefit for themselves or others.
    Use Company information, assets or resources for their personal gain or the improper benefit of others.
    Take advantage of inside information or their position with the Company.
 
Any activity that has the appearance of a conflict of interest — whether or not an actual conflict exists — must be avoided. If you think you may be in a situation that could be perceived as a conflict, disclose the potential conflict to your supervisor or manager immediately. Of course, if any of us sees a conflict of interest at Chevron, we must report it.
Avoiding conflicts of interest in all of our business decisions is essential to our values of Integrity and Trust.

Avoid Accepting or Giving Gifts, Fees, Favors or Other Advantages

It is also a conflict of interest for a Chevron employee or director to give or receive gifts or entertainment of more than nominal value or cash in any amount to or from people or companies doing or seeking to do business with Chevron. Therefore, we must not:
    Accept fees or honoraria in exchange for services provided on behalf of the Company.
    Provide or accept gifts or entertainment from anyone doing or seeking business with Chevron or any of its affiliates. Generally, modest forms of
gifts and entertainment received from vendors are acceptable and do not create conflicts of interest.
Consult with your local compliance coordinator to learn about the guidelines established by your reporting unit for “nominal value” gifts and entertainment.
 
    Give a gift or entertainment to anyone for the purpose of improperly influencing him or her to take action in favor of Chevron.

If we ever feel that it may be appropriate to accept a gift of more than nominal value, we should seek guidance from our supervisors.
We must never use material nonpublic information of any kind for personal gain.
Insider Trading Is Prohibited
It is illegal to purchase or sell Chevron securities if you have “material nonpublic information” concerning Chevron. Securities include common stock or other debt or equity securities, options or shares held in Chevron investment and retirement plans. It is also illegal to purchase or sell the securities of another company if you have material nonpublic information about that company. If you engage in insider trading you will likely lose your job and be subject to significant civil and criminal penalties.
We must never use material nonpublic information about Chevron or the companies doing business with Chevron for personal gain. In addition, we must never give material nonpublic information to others who may purchase or sell Chevron securities or the securities  of other companies. If you provide a “tip” to someone who then buys or sells securities, both of you can be convicted of insider trading.
“Nonpublic information” is information that is known within the Company and has not been publicly released. “Material information” is information that  a reasonable investor would consider important when deciding to buy or sell securities. Employees who are  in possession of material nonpublic information may
 
not complete a security transaction until the first business day that is at least 24 hours after the time that the information is publicly released. Some examples
of nonpublic information that could be considered material include:
    Financial forecasts
    Changes in sales, market share or production
    Changes in debt ratings or analyst upgrades or downgrades of Chevron securities
    Earnings, dividends or stock splits
    Proposed mergers, acquisitions or divestitures
    Marketing plans
    Strategic plans
    New product information
    Changes in top management

Whether any particular information could be considered “material” by a reasonable investor depends on specific circumstances. A major factor in determining whether information is material
is the impact that information could have on the Company’s financial condition or stock price. If you are in doubt as to whether nonpublic information you have is material, you should seek guidance from your supervisor or your local Chevron legal counsel.

Questions & Answers

QMy father owns a controlling interest in a company that has supplied materials to Chevron
for many years. I was recently hired, and in my new position, I now have authority to contract with that same supplier. Am I faced with a potential conflict of interest?
AEven though the supplier is a longtime vendor
of our Company, an appearance of a conflict has
now been created because you are involved in the decision-making process regarding the selection of the supplier. In this case, the problem could be resolved if an independent decision maker, such as your manager, acts instead of you. The important action for you to take is to formally disclose the potential conflict to your supervisor or manager so that it may be resolved.
 
QI recently learned that our Company will announce disappointing financial results for this
quarter. Is this inside information?
AYes. This kind of financial news can have  a negative effect on a company’s stock price and
would certainly be considered material nonpublic information, or inside information. If you sell Chevron securities on the basis of this information before it becomes public, you are engaging in insider trading.
QI accidentally saw a copy of a confidential
memo describing a large contract that our Company
will soon sign with another company. If I buy some  of the other company’s stock on the basis of this information and before news of the contract is made public, am I engaging in insider trading?
AYes. Assuming that the news of this contract is
material nonpublic information, or inside information,
if you purchase securities of the other company on the basis of this information before it becomes public, you are engaging in insider trading.
 
Antibribery, International Trade and Antiboycott Laws

Wherever Chevron operates, we respect and comply with the local laws and regulations.

Wherever Chevron operates, we must respect and conform to each country’s unique customs and business practices. Above all, we must follow its laws and regulations.

When business transactions involve more than one country, we must find the best way to comply with all applicable laws. Whenever a possible conflict of laws situation arises, we should always seek guidance from our organization’s legal counsel.

Bribery Is Always Prohibited

Bribery of any government official in any country is strictly against Chevron policy, even if the refusal to make such a payment would result in the Company losing a business opportunity.

Almost every country prohibits the bribery of its  own officials. In addition, many countries have antibribery/anticorruption laws that make it illegal to
bribe officials of other countries. In the United States, that law is the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Employees with duties that involve transactions or travel outside of the United States must familiarize themselves with this law.

Management approval is required before any gift  or payment can be made to a government or public official. In some cases, the gift or payment must also be approved by your compliance coordinator or Corporate Compliance.
 
Chevron employees and contractors are prohibited from making payments or providing anything of value to government officials with the intent to improperly influence the performance of their official duties or gain any other improper advantage. Chevron requires that internal controls be in place and functioning
and that accurate and complete transaction records be kept within the Company. Our standard language for procurement contracts includes a requirement  for our suppliers and contractors to comply with all applicable laws and keep accurate books and records. Where appropriate, our procurement contracts contain specific antibribery commitments.

Complying With International Trade Laws

Laws that apply to Chevron operations outside the United States include the local laws of countries where our operations occur as well as certain U.S. laws that govern international operations of U.S. companies and
U.S. persons. Many countries have laws that restrict  or otherwise require licensing for the export or import of certain goods and services to other countries and to certain parties. Countries may also impose various kinds of trade sanctions or embargoes against other countries or persons.

The scope of these trade sanctions or trade embargoes may vary widely from country to country. They may range from specific prohibitions on trade in a specific commodity to a total prohibition of all
 
commercial transactions. Due to the complexities of these international trade laws, we must seek guidance from Chevron’s legal counsel before exporting or importing goods or services or engaging in transactions that might be affected by trade sanctions.

Understanding Antiboycott Laws
Some countries have adopted laws prohibiting their people and businesses from participating in or cooperating with international trade embargoes or sanctions that have been imposed by other countries. For example, antiboycott laws in the United States penalize U.S. companies, like Chevron, if they or their subsidiaries or affiliates participate or cooperate
with international boycotts not supported by the United States. U.S. antiboycott laws also require these companies to report any request to participate or cooperate in such a boycott. Any employee receiving  a request of this sort should inform Chevron legal counsel immediately.

Questions & Answers

QI’m planning to host a lunch meeting with government officials who are negotiating a
government contract with the Company. Is this allowable under the anticorruption laws?
AIncurring reasonable costs for a normal
business lunch meeting may not be prohibited under
applicable anticorruption laws, including the FCPA. However, the lunch may be subject to pre-approval by your local compliance, reporting unit compliance, or Corporate Compliance. Please consult your compliance coordinator.
QA port official has told me that it will take weeks to deliver materials to a work site unless a payment is
made to help him “expedite” our shipment. Should I comply with his request?
ANo. This payment likely violates local and other
applicable antibribery laws.
QI recently met an agent who can assist our Company in obtaining business in a country where it has
been particularly difficult for us to become established and obtain necessary government permits. May I engage this agent on behalf of our Company?
ABefore you engage this agent, consult with your
local Chevron Law department and local compliance
coordinator to ensure that the agent is reputable and that its business methods are aligned with both local and U.S. laws. Due diligence on this agent’s reputation is critical because the Company could be legally liable for acts of the agent or other third party.
 
Government Affairs and Political Involvement

Chevron’s participation in the political arena is conducted in accordance with the highest ethical standards.
 
In the course of doing business around the world, Chevron interacts regularly with government officials.
How we conduct ourselves with governments and  in the political arena can affect our reputation, our operations around the world and our ability to work
with government officials and other stakeholders. The Trust that we depend upon from both local and global communities and governments is essential to our business, and we must continually earn it.

Our activities must meet the highest ethical standards and comply with both U.S. and local laws and regulations. In all instances, it is imperative for employees to seek proper guidance and obtain the required approvals before engaging in government or political activities.

Engaging in Lobbying Activities

Lobbying is an activity aimed at influencing public policy decisions by providing information to elected or appointed officials and their staff. Lobbying activities include both direct communication with public  officials and providing support to any person who engages in such communication.

Lobbying activities, in the United States and elsewhere, are strictly regulated. Prior to engaging  in lobbying activities, any employee or director must obtain guidance from his or her local PGPA manager.
 
Providing Gifts to U.S. Public Officials

Under certain circumstances, Chevron may provide gifts to U.S. public officials. Such gifts must always be in strict compliance with the law, Company policy and the values of The Chevron Way.

We must seek guidance from Chevron’s Law department before committing to provide any gifts to U.S. public officials. These include elected and appointed U.S. officials at the local, state and federal levels as well as government employees such as
public safety officers and public university professors. Laws regulating “gifts” typically define that term as anything of value, including meals, gift certificates, travel expenses, event tickets or honoraria. Any payment made to a third party on behalf of a public official, such as a payment to a hotel for a hotel room used by a public official, is considered a gift to the public official. Certain gifts may be prohibited by law, create reporting obligations, or create conflicts of interest. U.S. laws that regulate gifts to public officials apply even when the officials are outside the United States. For example, U.S. federal law applies to the  gift of a meal given to a U.S. embassy employee outside the United States.

Gifts to non-U.S. officials require advance approval from your reporting unit’s compliance coordinator or the Corporate Compliance office.
 
Making Political Contributions

Political contributions by the corporation concerning elections of any kind, whether monetary or nonmonetary (such as allowing an employee to work on a campaign while on Company time) must be planned, budgeted, legally reviewed and approved in advance by PGPA, internal and external legal counsel, and in certain cases by the Executive Vice President of Policy and Planning.

Engaging in Political Activities on Our Own

Chevron encourages us to participate in the political and governmental process and, when permitted by a country’s laws and customs, to communicate our personal views to appointed and elected officials. However, we cannot identify ourselves as representatives of Chevron or any of its affiliate companies.

Under no circumstances will the Company reimburse any employee for making a personal political contribution.

Employees may not engage in personal political activities during paid working hours or when using Company resources (such as email, phone and meeting rooms) without receiving pre-approval since such activities may be an illegal political contribution by Chevron. Employees must seek guidance from their local PGPA manager.
 
Questions & Answers

QA co-worker uses Company email to solicit votes and financial support for his sister, who is running for
a local political office. Is this acceptable?
ANo. Company resources may not be used for political purposes without first obtaining all
required approvals.
 
QI attended a campaign fundraiser for a congressman, and I’m confident that the Company
would like to see him re-elected. I wrote a personal check to the congressman’s campaign committee and included the amount in my expense report. Will the Company reimburse me for this expense?
ANo. If the Company reimburses you for the
contribution, the Company will be the source of
the contribution, which would violate U.S. law. In addition, Company policy requires that all campaign contributions in the United States must be planned and budgeted and have several specific legal
and management approvals prior to making the contribution. Outside the United States, political contributions undergo an equally rigorous review and approval process.
QA government official is coming to speak to our department about a public policy issue of interest to
our Company. I’d like to buy him lunch to thank him for his time. May I do this?
AA meal is considered a gift. For U.S. officials,
you must seek guidance from the Political Law counsel
(Corporation Law) or the senior analyst, Political Programs and Compliance (PGPA) prior to providing a gift. For non-U.S. officials, you must seek guidance
from your local legal counsel, compliance coordinator, or Corporate Compliance prior to providing a gift.

Additional Resources

    Within the United States, consult the Political Law counsel (Corporation Law) or the senior analyst, Political Programs and Compliance (PGPA).
    Outside the United States, contact Chevron’s Policy, Government and Public Affairs personnel in the host country. Also consult your local Chevron legal counsel associated with your reporting unit or business unit.
 
Operational Excellence:
Safety, Health, Environment, Reliability and Efficiency
Chevron’s policy is to protect the safety and health of people and the quality of the environment and to conduct our operations reliably and efficiently.
The Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) defines the expectations regarding the systematic management of process safety, personal safety and health, environment, reliability and efficiency to achieve world-class performance in operational excellence.

Protecting People and the Environment is a key value at Chevron. We place the highest priority on the health and safety of our workforce and protection of our assets and the environment. We aim to be admired for world- class performance through disciplined application of our Operational Excellence Management System.
All of us are responsible for complying with applicable Company policy and government laws and regulations and for fully committing to ALWAYS meeting the requirements of the OEMS in our work activities. Chevron expects compliance with the letter and the spirit of applicable environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and policies, regardless of the degree of enforcement.

Each of us has the authority and responsibility to stop – or not start – any work activity if hazards or risks pose a threat to safety or the environment.
 
Questions & Answers

QMy supervisor asked me to perform a task that I believe violates environmental regulations. What
should I do?
A Never guess about environmental regulations. If you are uncertain, check with your supervisor to be sure
you have understood the request. If you still feel the request violates environmental regulations, report the concern to local management or the Chevron Hotline.
QI have a work order that specifically outlines a task to be performed. As I began to do the task, I
discovered that conditions are different from those expected when the job was planned. I have a feeling that continuing the job as outlined in the work order will be unsafe. What should I do?
A Employees have the responsibility and authority
to stop or not begin work that they believe may be
unsafe. You should communicate your concerns to your supervisor. Your supervisor has the responsibility to investigate, understand and resolve the issue.
QMy work site has a program to record, investigate and correct injury-producing accidents.
Part of the site’s annual incentive plan is based on its safety performance, and I know of injuries that are not being reported. What should I do?
A It’s important to investigate injury-producing
accidents to determine steps necessary to prevent
similar occurrences. You should always notify your supervisor when an accident occurs in the workplace. If a co-worker or supervisor is reluctant to report a work-related injury, encourage him or her to report  it. If the injury is not reported then contact local management or the Chevron Hotline.
 
Antitrust/Competition  Laws

We always operate not only according to the letter but also the spirit of all applicable laws.

“Antitrust” laws, as they are called in the U.S., are often known internationally as “competition” or “antimonopoly” laws. Their purpose is to help make sure that the free market system works properly and that competition among companies is fair. We must all help ensure that Chevron’s business is always in compliance with these laws. Most of the countries where we do business have such laws. We are
committed to complying with antitrust laws, just as we are committed to following all laws.

Agreements and Contacts With Competitors

We must be very careful when we have any contact with our competitors. Antitrust laws prohibit any agreements with competitors that might “restrain trade.” We do not want to even create the appearance that we have entered into any such agreement. Even communications with competitors that feel completely innocent might give rise to accusations.

Exchanging any information with a competitor can also give rise to concerns, and it is best to get advice from your local Chevron legal counsel before you do so. For this reason, membership in trade associations must be approved by management in advance.
Relationships With Customers and Suppliers
There are also antitrust concerns related to our customers and suppliers that could be determined to be a “restraint of trade.” Your local Chevron legal counsel can advise you on the areas of your business that raise concerns.
Consequences of Violations

The consequences of violating antitrust/competition laws can be extremely serious for Chevron and its employees. Violations can lead to fines and imprisonment for the individuals involved and to heavier fines for the Company. In addition to criminal prosecution, we may be subject to very costly civil suits as well.

Whenever we have any doubt as to whether an action we are considering raises issues under these laws, we should seek advice from our local Chevron legal counsel.
Questions & Answers
QI just received some confidential information about a competitor. I didn’t ask for it, but this kind of
information could be very useful to me. What should I do?
ABefore you read or copy this information, call
the Law department to discuss how the information
was acquired. That will determine whether or not you may use it. If you are allowed to use it, follow the
Law department’s instruction for documenting the source of the information.
QI have the opportunity to interview the employee of a competitor for a position at our
Company. Is it OK to take the opportunity to ask about how the competitor conducts certain aspects of its business?
ANo. Focus on interviewing the person for the
position, not on gathering competitor information.
 
Data Privacy

All employees must exercise care and discretion in handling personal data.
Personal data is information that can identify an individual, including employees, contractors,
directors, shareholders, customers and anyone else with whom Chevron does business. Personal data is an important asset, and the way we handle this data is critical to our success, demonstrates respect and promotes trust. In many cases, there are laws that govern how we collect, use and dispose of personal data. For these reasons, we must follow Company policies and guidelines for handling personal data.

Chevron respects the confidentiality of personal data, in both paper and electronic form. This information may not be used or disclosed improperly or used
by someone who is not authorized to do so. A strong privacy policy supports Chevron’s value of
Partnership, which reflects the trusting and beneficial relationships we enjoy with all of our stakeholders.
 
Proper Use of Personal Data
Chevron has a companywide data privacy policy that sets expectations for how Chevron’s workforce handles personal data. While the policy reflects the requirements of privacy laws around the world, it is important to remember that where privacy laws are stricter, Chevron must comply with those laws.
 
When collecting and using personal data, you should keep several important principles in mind. Personal data should be processed only if there is a legitimate business reason to do so. You should collect and use only the personal data needed for the task at hand. Finally, you should keep all personal data secure by following Chevron’s Information Protection policies and guidelines.

Questions & Answers

QA colleague who works for another company asked me to provide the names of some of my
business contacts. My colleague’s company does not compete with our Company. Is it OK to give her this information?
ABusiness contact information is not only
confidential, but because it can identify an individual,
it is considered personal data. It should not be shared with anyone except as required or with the permission of the business contact. If you believe your colleague could use the services of your business contact’s company, you could either ask your business contact if he or she is comfortable with you sharing his or her contact information or pass along your colleague’s company information to your business contact (with the colleague’s permission).
QI occasionally work at home on my own personal computer. I take paper and electronic files containing
customer information home with me and return the updated electronic files back to the office. Is this OK?
ANo. If you must work at home, you should use
a Company-issued notebook computer or approved
mobile device and follow appropriate security measures. Your personal computer should not be used to work on customer information.
Additional Resources
Questions about the appropriate use and protection of personal data can be directed to Chevron’s privacy counsel within the Corporation Law department or Information Risk Management’s Global Privacy Office.
 
Protection of Information and Intellectual Property

We all have a responsibility to understand the risks when our information assets are compromised.
Chevron’s information assets are vital resources. They include both the Company’s paper and electronic records and also the systems that store, process or transmit Company information. Chevron’s intellectual property, which includes the Company’s trade secrets, patents, trademarks and copyrighted material, is also a key Chevron information asset.


Proper Access and Use
Chevron policies safeguard our information assets against theft, unauthorized disclosure, misuse, trespass and careless handling. At times we may be authorized, by local management, to view and handle particular information assets. Typical examples might include taking your assigned Company notebook computer or mobile device home or being granted access to specific computer systems or information. Employees unsure of their authority should discuss this subject with local management for clarification. Improper handling of information may be grounds for disciplinary action, including termination. Examples  of improper handling include unauthorized viewing, copying, distributing, removing from the premises, damaging and altering of information.
 
Handling Sensitive or Proprietary Information

We all must be cautious and discreet when using information categorized as “classified” or “confidential-restricted access.” Such information should be shared only with other Chevron employees who have a legitimate “need to know.” Outside parties should have access to such information only if they are under binding confidentiality agreements and have a “need to know.” Similarly, when handling sensitive information that has been entrusted to us
by others, we must always treat it with the utmost care. Doing so can protect us from potential liability and is also in keeping with our values of Partnership and Trust.

We must also comply with all laws, regulations and contractual commitments regarding the valid and enforceable intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information. We will not knowingly infringe on or misuse the valid and enforceable intellectual property rights of third parties.
 
If you have a question about the use of patented or proprietary information, including computer software of third parties, you should contact the Chevron Law department. In order to use copyrighted material  such as articles, charts, maps, films and music, we must receive the permission of the copyright owner, unless such activities are allowed under the “fair use” provisions of the copyright laws. The Chevron Law department Intellectual Property Practice Group can help you determine whether a use of materials meets the criteria for “fair use.”
 
Retaining or Discarding Company Records
A Company record may serve one of many purposes. It may:
    Satisfy operating requirements (for example, maintenance logs and service contracts).

    Document a Company holding (for example, a lease or deed).

    Protect the Company’s interest in legal actions (for example, a product quality test).

    Show compliance with governmental regulations (for example, financial and injury reports).

We must all follow Chevron’s retention policy for all records and other forms of information. Company records must be kept for the set period required by the Company’s retention schedule. Documents and other forms of information that do not qualify as Company records, however, should not be retained past the time that they serve a business purpose.
 
Retrieving Information for Litigation Purposes

Sometimes during the course of litigation, we might be instructed by Chevron’s legal counsel to provide documents or other evidence. We must always comply with such instructions. We must consult legal counsel if we have any questions and report noncompliance if we suspect it.

Using Computer Systems
and Other Technical Resources

We are all responsible for helping to make sure that Chevron’s computer systems and other technical resources are used appropriately. We must keep access codes (for example, passwords, SmartBadge and personal identification numbers) in a secure place and not share them with others. Anyone with a system identity and access code is responsible for activities performed under that identity.

Unauthorized use of access codes, computer systems or programs may be grounds for disciplinary action, including termination of employment.
Using Email and the Internet
We must all ensure that computer and telecommunication systems are used only for Company business. Occasional incidental personal  use is permitted as long as we never violate Chevron’s standards of acceptable behavior. We should not assume that any use of Chevron’s communications devices or systems is private. Our usage of these may be monitored by the Company or subject to local laws and regulations.
 
Questions & Answers

QA colleague in another company recommended a management training video that he said was helpful to
his team. I’d like to show it to my team, but I can’t justify the cost. Can I borrow his video and make a copy?
AVideo materials are copyrighted, which means
that they should not be copied. Sometimes even
the original video cannot be borrowed and reshown without the copyright owner’s prior permission. If you want to show it to your team, you must buy a legitimate copy of the video. Furthermore, be aware that some video materials, even when purchased, are
available only for a specific use or a one-time showing, so do not assume that further showings would be acceptable. Verify the rights obtained by the company before showing the video again.
QI signed up to use my personal mobile device so I can check my Chevron email, calendar and contacts
on it. Can I disable the passcode on the mobile device and still continue to read my company email?
ANo. Disabling the passcode may compromise the
security of your mobile device and expose Company
email to others who should not have access to it. Chevron’s Information Protection policy requires Company information assets to be secured, and this includes email and other content you may read on the mobile device.
QMy work involves confidential information. I  use a notebook computer when traveling on business.
What precautions should I take?
AKeep your notebook computer secured at all times. Do not check it with the airline or leave it in
any unsecured place. If you travel with confidential information, be careful where you work on sensitive documents. Avoid public places where your information might be seen, such as planes, airports or restaurants. If traveling abroad, check the Corporate Law website to ensure any countries you are planning to visit do not have technology restrictions for notebook computers that could result in yours
being confiscated by customs officials.
 
Closing Note

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
www.chevron.com

© 2014 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.

Chinese Academy of Sciences
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: China
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct


Towards Excellence in Science
2. Establishing Behavioral Norms for
Scientific Excellence
The establishment of behavioral norms for scientific
excellence requires the strengthening of self-governance
and self-regulation in the scientific community and efforts
to guide scientists to respect the rules of scientific research
and to adhere to the behavioral norms and ethical standards
that promote the progress of science. Efforts also need to
be made to improve these norms and standards in scientific
practice, and through gradual improvement, create the
desired scientific culture of excellence.
Strengthening the self-governance and self-regulation
of the scientific community:
The history of science reveals that maintaining
scientific rigor and advancement towards scientific
excellence results from efforts in strengthening the selfgovernance
of the scientific community and in safeguarding
the freedom and independence of scientific exploration.
Sound self-regulation is a prerequisite for self-governance
of the scientific community. Scientists make discoveries and
create new knowledge through free exploration and inspire
each other to new ideas through intellectual exchange.
Scientists should adhere to rational skepticism and should
not assume theories and doctrines not subject to suspicion
and criticism, nor should they bow to any absolute authority.
The pursuit of scientific excellence requires the courage and
confidence of scientists to rationally and bravely challenge
conventional scientific paradigms. Therefore, scientists
should be encouraged and motivated to make innovations
and their enthusiasm and aspiration for innovation must
be fostered by allowances for set-backs and failures in the
208 Bulletin of the Chinese Academy of Sciences
exploration of the unknown. 
Upholding the reliability and innovativeness of
research methods:
The establishment and development of the modern
scientific system is closely linked to the research and
development of reliable and advanced research methods.
The rapid advance of the modern scientific knowledge
system is dependent on its methodological foundation,
which emphasizes empirical evidence acquired by careful
observation and meticulous experimentation, scrupulous
theoretical systems created through sound logic and
precision mathematics, and the bi-directional nexus between
rational foresight and empirical research. Major scientific
breakthroughs often result from the transformation of
research methods and instruments. The pursuit of scientific
excellence also needs innovation in scientific methods
and in the research and development of new technological
approaches and research tools. New methods and tools focus
scientific effort on continuous improvement and support a
core principle of scientific excellence; the maintenance of
objective, practical, rigorous and meticulous attitudes and
behaviors. The more frequent use of large datasets increases
the need for transparency and open science.
Upholding the moral standards of sincere cooperation,
honesty and integrity:
Modern scientific research is an undertaking that
pools the collective wisdom of the whole of humankind. It
allows new knowledge to become the shared wealth of the
whole of society through publication of research findings
and the correction of scientific errors through collective
efforts, rational reasoning and questioning by scientists
themselves. These processes constitute the critical basis
for the continuous and cumulative progress of science,
and are important mechanisms for safeguarding scientific
excellence. To pursue scientific excellence, scientists
must honor the work of others and properly respect the
rights of discovery of others. Scientists need to evaluate
the accomplishments of others in a fair manner, while
respecting the rights of others to rational skepticism.
The balance of respect and skepticism is fundamental to
professionalism in the scientific community. Scientists
should accurately record and report their research findings,
honestly present their data and research results, and
specifically protect the reputation of science by consciously
opposing scientific misconduct.
Assuming the social responsibilities of scientists:
New scientific knowledge, while creating huge material
and spiritual wealth for human society, can also have
adverse effects and may even challenge the social ethics
and practices long held in society. In the modern world,
where science and technology have profound impacts on
our ecosystems and socio-economic structures, the rational
application and risk management of scientific research
and research outcomes has become particularly important.
Scientists have great responsibility for how scientific and
technological advances are used and a responsibility for
preventing serious adverse effects. To strive for scientific
excellence, scientists must firmly bear in mind that the goal
of science is to benefit society and humankind. Scientists
need to observe scientific ethics and norms in scientific
research, respect nature, life, the value and dignity of people
and prevent the inappropriate application of scientific
knowledge. Scientists should assume responsibility for
evaluating the consequences of science and technology
applications, give the public timely forecasts and report
on the possible risks and side effects of applications from
scientific research, and commit efforts to the enhancement
of the public’s overall rational understanding of science.
3. Setting up an Evaluation System that
Promotes Excellence
Setting up research evaluation, funding and management
systems which prioritize scientific excellence is crucial to
the promotion of quality science. With scientific excellence
as the driver, high-quality research will be the first priority
and scientists will be motivated to design and conduct
excellent research.
Supporting and improving the peer review system:
Peer review is an important component of modern
science and a necessity for improving the scientific research
profession. Through quality control by merit-based selection
and the collective correction of errors, peer review plays an
important role in the healthy advancement of international
science. Although peer review mechanisms are commonly
used in scientific assessment, influence and interference from
non-academic spheres do occur now and then. To strive for
excellence, it is important to ensure that scientists play a
major role in scientific assessment, and that efforts be made
to guard against inappropriate administrative intervention and
misconduct both within and outside academia. It is important
to prevent overly detailed, too frequent and sophisticated
evaluation, and peer review with unclear orientation in value.
It is also important not to reduce peer review to a formality or
a simple management tool.
Shaping an open, fair and standardized assessment
mechanism:
To strive for excellence, efforts need to be made to
ensure that the responsibility for evaluation be entrusted
to those experts who are professionally recognized
Bulletin of the Chinese Academy of Sciences 209
and capable. The transparency of evaluations and the
supervision of assessment process needs to be strengthened,
and academic abuse or the irresponsible behavior of
experts needs to be effectively prevented. Efforts need to
be made to create a fair competitive environment in which
peer review experts are requested to carry out justified
evaluation with strict adherence to protocols, while
preventing undue influence and intervention from both
individuals and institutions. Efforts also need to be made to
set up standardized and institutionalized best practice and
procedures for peer review.
Adhering to evaluation criteria that promote innovation
and excellence:
The core purpose of science evaluation is to improve
the quality of scientific research and to effectively promote
genuine research. To promote scientific excellence, it is
essential to encourage genuine and transformative research
as the primary principle of evaluation. There is a need to
guide scientists to commit themselves to research excellence
and to focus on major scientific issues of transformative
significance that require long-term commitment and
effort but often have a higher risk of failure. There is
a need to set up specific evaluation criteria relevant to
the range of research activities and their differences in
nature and objectives. There is a need to avoid simplified
actions that over emphasize quantitative criteria for shortterm
performance. There is a need to carefully scrutinize
evaluation results that are not based on consensus and
have different balances of opinions. There is a need to
strengthen diagnostic and development-oriented evaluation,
and promote the constructive role of evaluation. There is a
need to set up a mechanism to fairly evaluate collaborative
achievements so as to facilitate exchange and collaboration
between scientists and even academic disciplines. There
is a need to guard against policies and actions in the
evaluation of scientific institutions and talent that lead to
hasty work. Evaluation-related incentives should not induce
researchers and institutions to carry out rushed research for
sub-optimally quick results and short-term or individual
benefits.
Excellence in science is a common and ongoing
goal of the whole international scientific community and
must be based on openness. To catalyze the wisdom of
all scientists and to allow science to benefit the whole of
humanity requires extensive exchange, communication and
cooperation between scientists and colleagues in the global
scientific community. Chinese scientists will join hands
with their colleagues across the world to pursue scientific
excellence and promote the continuous progress of science
and the sustainable development of human civilization.
Code of Ethics for Researchers of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Czech Republic
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry)
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Code of Ethics for Researchers of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic
 I.
General principles

A researcher:
a.     abides by deep-seated human moral principles and by principles spelled out in this Code;
b.     will not allow a conflict of interest to arise as a result of his/her position and related activities at an institution of the ASCR and his/her private activities;
c.     will conduct his/her research with full working and personal commitment. The total of his/her contractual workload should not exceed his/her normal workload more than 1.5 times;
d.     requires of his/her colleagues conduct conducive to these principles;
e.     does not defend, conceal or justify conduct that contravenes the principles set forth in this Code, not even on the basis of necessary obedience and loyalty;
f.     considers science and research as an integral part of culture and the source of innovation and defends them against being questioned;
g.     stands resolutely against the non-ethical and inappropriate use of scientific knowledge;
h.     expands and intensifies his/her scientific knowledge and strives to improve personal professional competency;
i.     maintains a critical attitude toward his/her own scientific findings and results as well as to results of colleagues and is open to discussion and factual arguments;
j.     defends the freedom of scientific thought, expression, exchanges of opinion and information;
k.     refuses to use non-scientific approaches and expressions of racial, religious, nationalist and political opinions in science;
l.     recognizes and intentionally disseminates the principles of reliable, trustworthy scientific practice in the scientific community and refuses all scientific dishonesty and infringement of the principles specified in this Code.
 
II.
Principles of Scientific Work

A researcher:
a.     seeks to expand the frontiers of scientific knowledge and makes every effort to ensure that his/her practically usable research results serve society;
b.     carries out research in such a way that society, the environment and cultural values are not threatened;
c.     observes principles of scientific work (Art. 1) when obtaining, selecting and assessing scientific data, and at the same time takes into account the specificity of his/her discipline;
d.     accounts for the precision and objectivity of his/her research and recognizes the limits of research methods used;
e.     is responsible for the completeness and verifiability of the results published on a certain problem and for their undistorted interpretation;
f.     preserves primary data and documentation of all substantial published results for an allotted time in the respective discipline of science unless other obligations or rules preclude this;
g.     holds him/herself accountable for the purposeful and efficient use of research funds and does not duplicate research previously carried out elsewhere if it is not needed for the verification, supplementation or comparison of the results obtained;
h.     presents the results of his/her research which are not subject to confidentiality to the scientific public and acquaints the general public with them only after the results have been published in the scholarly press.
 
III.
Principles for Publicizing Scientific Knowledge and Results

A researcher:
a.     can be listed as the author or co-author of a scientific paper if contributing in any substantial way to its origin, e.g., to the design of the studies and experiments and their realisation, to analysing, interpreting, working out or modelling the data or drawing up the article, on the condition co-authorship is agreed to;
b.     acknowledges, in the article, the scientific contributions of predecessors and colleagues to the question studied to which the article is linked directly, and when citing findings and results obtained by other authors a clear reference is made to the respective source;
c.     cites also important works which are contrary to his/her own results and conclusions;
d.     will publish errata or také other appropriate steps if he/she later finds any substantial error in his/her published data;
e.     avoids partitioning acquired results and knowledge intentionally to publish them in multiple journals thereby increasing the number of his/her scientific papers.

IV.
Principles Regulating Relations with Students and Co-workers

A researcher:
a.     admits students and research co-workers after objectively evaluating their intellectual, ethical and personal characteristics;
b.     pays heed to correctness and openness in the mutual communication when leading a research team, and avoids an unjustified autocratic style of leadership;
c.     assesses students and colleagues according to the results achieved and treats them equitably, not requiring from them work which is his/her responsibility, or that beyond the student´s capabilities;
d.     conveys knowledge, skills and principles of good conduct in science by word and personal example, to his/her students and colleagues;
e.     is devoted to teaching his/her students and guides them to develop their independent, critical thinking and a responsible approach to work and respects their right to freely express their opinions about research;
f.     supports the enhancement of the qualifications of students and subordinate researchers and their scientific and publication activities and international contacts and lists them among the authors of a manuscript if they have made a creative and substantial contribution to it;
g.     deduces consequences from a possible scientific misconduct of his/her colleagues.

V.
Principles for the Assessment, Evaluation, Opponent and Expert Activities

A researcher:
a.     performs alone assessment or other evaluation work assigned;
b.     protects intellectual property rights of the authors of evaluated manuscripts, designs of projects and communications, being careful only to work out an expert review and not use the data contained in evaluated materials for personal advantage or provide them to a third person;
c.     does not intentionally prolong the assessment of an evaluated work so as to achieve personal advantage or for the benefit of a third person;
d.     refuses to prepare an expert opinion, the conclusions of which could be influenced by his/her personal interest, or reveals this fact in advance; avoids any other potential conflicts of interest;
e.     prepares expert opinions responsibly and only from his/her specialty area, resisting any potential external pressures which could influence this opinion;
f.     observes objective criteria in evaluating and opponent procedures, adheres to the contractor´s rules and requires the same adherence from the other participants of the procedure.


Code of Ethics of Chemists (Quebec, Canada)
Region: WEOG
Country: Canada
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SETTING UP A MONITORING SYSTEM
IN BUSINESS FOR PRECURSOR CHEMICALS AND EQUIPMENT THAT
CAN BE DIVERTED TO ILUCIT t>'ANUFACTURE OF DRUGS
GENERAL PROVISION
1. This Code determines, pursuant to section 87 of the Professional Code (chapter C-26), the general
and special duties that any member of the Ordre des chimistes du Québec must discharge towards
the public, his clients and his profession.
It determines acts that are derogatory to the dignity of the profession, provisions to preserve the
secrecy of confidential information that becomes known to a member of the Order in the practice of
his profession, the conditions and procedure applicable to the exercise of the rights of access and
correction provided for in sections 60.5 and 60.6 of the Professional Code as well as the conditions,
obligations and prohibitions in respect of advertising by a member of the Order.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 1.
DIVISION II
DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS TOWARDS THE PUBLIC
2. The chemist shall support every measure likely to improve the quality and availability of the
professional services in the field in which he practises.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 2.
3. The chemist shall have a conduct beyond reproach towards every person that makes contact with
him.
He shall, in particular, act with courtesy, dignity, moderation and objectivity.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 3.
4. The chemist shall bear in mind the general effect his work may have on the life, health or property
of any person, on the quality of the environment and on the whole society. For such purpose, he
shall, in particular, notify his client of such consequences in relation to the mandate given him and,
where applicable, suggest more adequate means for carrying out such mandate.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 4.
5. The chemist shall see that the analysed substances that are expired or unused, are safely
reclaimed for the purposes of disposition, of processing or of destruction.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 5.
6. The chemist shall, where he considers that the work endangers public safety, notify the
responsible persons thereof and make the recommendations he considers appropriate. He shall also
notify the Order if adequate safeguards are not taken.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 6.
7. The chemist shall promote measures of education and information in the field in which he
practises. He shall also perform the necessary acts to ensure such education and information.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 7.
8. The chemist shall see that the services rendered where he practises are rendered in accordance
with the hygiene and safety rules and in respect with the governmental norms of management,
warehousing and disposition of the different products used in his field of practice.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 8.
9. The chemist shall seek to possess an adequate knowledge of existing scientific techniques and
their advantages and inconveniences in the field of activities in which he practises.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 9.
DIVISION III
DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS TOWARDS CLIENTS
§1. General provisions
10. Before accepting a mandate, the chemist shall take into consideration the extent of his
aptitudes, proficiency and the means at his disposal. He shall avoid:
(1) to undertake or to continue a mandate for which he is not sufficiently prepared without
obtaining the necessary assistance;
(2) to accept a mandate for which he has not gained or for which he is not able to gain the
required qualification.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 10.
11. The chemist shall at all times recognize the right of the client to consult a colleague, a member of
another professional order or another competent person.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 11.
12. In addition to the provision in section 54 of the Professional Code (chapter C-26), the chemist
shall not practise under conditions or state likely to impair the dignity of the profession or the quality
of the services provided.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 12.
13. The chemist shall endeavour to establish a relationship of mutual confidence between the client
and himself. To that end, he shall, in particular:
(1) refrain from practising his profession in an impersonal manner;
(2) respect his client's scale of values and personal convictions, taking into account, however, the
responsibilities which are his, particularly the protection of the public.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 13.
14. The chemist that foresees that the mandate entrusted to him by his client may be carried out in
whole or in part in its essential aspects by another chemist shall so inform his client.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 14.
15. The chemist shall refrain from intervening in the personal matters of his client on issues that are
not relevant to the profession and that are not relevant to the reasons for which the client gave him
the mandate.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 15.
16. The chemist shall refrain from using, outside a recognized scientific milieu, any method
insufficiently proved.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 16.
17. The chemist shall practise his profession in accordance with the current professional standards
or scientific knowledge; with this end in view, he shall keep up to date and perfect his knowledge.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 17.
§2. Integrity
18. The chemist shall carry out his professional duties with integrity and intellectual honesty.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 18.
19. If the good of the client so requires, the chemist shall, with the latter's authorization, consult a
colleague, a member of another professional order or another competent person, or refer him to
one of these persons.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 19.
20. The chemist shall inform his client, as soon as possible, of the extent and terms of the mandate
entrusted to him by the latter and obtain his agreement in this respect.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 20.
21. In all written, verbal or electronic communications, the chemist shall avoid to include any false
information or exclude any essential information.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 21.
22. The chemist shall avoid discriminatory, fraudulent or illegal practices and he shall refuse to
participate in such practices.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 22.
23. The chemist shall not express opinions or give advice that is contradictory or incomplete. To that
end, he shall try to know all the facts before expressing an opinion or giving advice.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 23.
24. The chemist shall only inquire about the facts related to the execution of his mandate and he
shall abstain himself to use his position to get irrelevant information.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 24.
25. The chemist shall inform his client as early as possible of any error that might cause the latter
prejudice and which cannot be easily rectified, of any complication or of any difficulties, that happen
while rendering his professional services.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 25.
26. The chemist shall take reasonable care of the property entrusted to his care by a client and he
may not lend or use it for purposes other than those for which it has been entrusted to him.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 26.
27. The chemist shall notify his client of any illegal act likely to benefit that client which came to his
knowledge in the exercise of his mandate.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 27.
28. The chemist shall avoid to make or multiply professional services that are not justified by the
nature of the mandate entrusted to him by his client.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 28.
29. The chemist who is called upon as an expert witness shall give his opinion only when it is based
on sufficient knowledge.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 29.
§3. Availability and diligence
30. The chemist shall display reasonable availability and diligence.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 30.
31. In addition to opinion and advice, the chemist shall furnish his client with any explanation
necessary to the understanding and appreciation of the services he provides him.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 31.
32. The chemist shall be diligent and frank in giving an accounting of the progress in the execution of
his mandate to his client when so requested by the latter.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 32.
33. Unless he has just and reasonable grounds to the contrary, the chemist shall not cease to act for
the account of a client. The following shall, in particular, constitute just and reasonable grounds:
(1) loss of the client's confidence;
(2) the fact that the chemist is placed in a situation of conflict of interest or in a context whereby
his professional independence could be called in question;
(3) inducement by the client to perform illegal, unfair, immoral or fraudulent acts;
(4) the fact that he has been deceived by the client or his failure to co-operate;
(5) the client has refused to pay the chemist's fees;
(6) it is impossible for the chemist to communicate with the client or to obtain from him the
elements considered necessary to carry out the mandate.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 33.
34. Before he ceases to exercise his functions for the account of a client, the chemist shall give
advance notice of withdrawal within a reasonable time and ensure that such termination of service is
not seriously prejudicial to his client.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 34.
§4. Liability
35. The chemist shall, in the practice of his profession, fully commit his personal civil liability. It is
thus prohibited for him to include in a contract for professional services a clause excluding such
responsibility directly or indirectly, in whole or in part.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 35.
36. The chemist shall sign every report or document he prepares himself, that he supervises or for
which he is responsible. However, the chemist may put his initials on every report or document for
which he his responsible if his name is also legibly entered on such report or document.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 36.
37. Notwithstanding section 36, the chemist may permit, where the circumstance so requires, that
the results of the work for which he is responsible be forwarded without his signature or initials to
third parties he designates. In such case, the chemist shall, however, sign or initial the results thus
forwarded on the first reasonable occasion, in accordance with section 36.
O.C.
§5. Independence and impartiality
38. The chemist shall subordinate his personal interests to those of his client.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 38.
39. The chemist shall ignore any intervention by a third party which could influence his professional
liberty and the performance of his professional duties to the prejudice of his client. He shall also
avoid carrying out a task contrary to his professional conscience or to the principles governing the
practice of his profession.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 39.
40. The chemist shall act with objectivity whenever persons likely to become clients request
information from him.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 40.
41. The chemist shall avoid any situation which could limit directly or indirectly his professional
liberty to the detriment of his clients.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 41.
42. The chemist shall safeguard his professional independence at all times and avoid any situation
which would put him in conflict of interest. Without restricting the generality of the foregoing, a
chemist is:
(1) in conflict of interest when the interests concerned are such that he may be influenced to
favour certain of them to those of his client or whereby his judgment and loyalty towards the latter
could be unfavourably affected;
(2) no longer an independent adviser in respect of a given act if he finds a personal advantage,
direct or indirect, real or possible, therein.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 42.
43. As soon as ascertains that he is in a situation of conflict of interest, the chemist shall notify his
client thereof and ask him authorization to continue his mandate.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 43.
44. The chemist shall be impartial when he is in relation with his client, the latter's suppliers and the
other persons making business with his client.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 44.
45. Save for the remuneration to which he is entitled, the chemist shall refrain from paying or
receiving any benefit, rebate or commission related to the practice of his profession.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 45.
46. The chemist shall refuse, in particular, any commission or reimbursement from any interested
person dealing with his client in connexion with the work for which he is responsible.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 46.
47. The chemist shall generally act in the same matter for only one of the parties in question. If his
professional duties require that he act otherwise, the chemist shall specify the nature of his
responsibilities and shall keep all the interested parties informed that he will cease to act if the
situation becomes irreconcilable with his duty of impartiality.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 47.
§6. Professional secrecy
48. The chemist that asks a client to give him confidential information or that allows such
information to be given to him shall ensure that the client is fully aware of the purpose of the
interview and of the various uses to which such information can be put.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 48.
49. The chemist shall not disclose that a person has requested his services when such fact is likely to
be detrimental to that person.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 49.
50. The chemist shall avoid indiscreet conversations concerning a client and the services rendered
him.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 50.
51. The chemist shall not make use of confidential information to the prejudice of a client or with a
view to obtaining, directly or indirectly, a benefit for himself or for another person.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 51.
52. The chemist shall see to it that his collaborators and the persons under his authority or
supervision do not divulge or do not make use of confidential information which may have come to
their attention in the performance of their duties.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 52.
§6.1. Lifting of professional secrecy to protect individuals
O.C. 21-2004, s. 1.
52.1. A chemist may communicate information that is protected by professional secrecy to prevent
an act of violence, including a suicide, where the chemist has reasonable cause to believe that there
is an imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury to a person or an identifiable group of
persons.
However, the chemist may only communicate the information to a person exposed to the danger or
that person's representative, and to the persons who can come to that person's aid. The chemist may
only communicate such information as is necessary to achieve the purposes for which the
information is communicated, in particular the name of the person in danger, the name and contact
information of the person who made the threats, the nature of the threats and the circumstances in
which they were made.
If it is necessary in the best interests of the person exposed to the danger, the chemist shall consult
another member of the order, a member of another professional order, or any other qualified
person, provided the consultation will not prejudicially delay the communication of the information.
O.C. 21-2004, s. 1.
52.2. A chemist shall enter in the client's record as soon as possible:
(1) the name of the person exposed to the danger;
(2) the reasons supporting the decision to communicate the information; and
(3) the subject of the communication, the mode of communication, the name of any person to
whom the information was given and the date and time it was communicated.
The chemist shall send that information to the bureau of the syndic without delay.
O.C. 21-2004, s. 1.
§7. Accessibility of records
53. The chemist may require that an application referred to in sections 55, 58 or 61 be made and the
right be exercised at his professional domicile during his regular working hours.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 53.
54. If he fails to reply within 10 days of receiving an application to which sections 55 or 58 applies,
the chemist is deemed to have refused to grant it.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 54.
I. Terms and conditions of the exercise of the right of access provided for in section 60.5 of the
Professional Code
55. In addition to the particular rules prescribed by law, the chemist shall promptly follow up, at the
latest within 10 days of its receipt, on any request made by a client whose purpose is:
(1) to consult documents that concern him in any record made in his regard;
(2) to obtain a copy of the documents that concern him in any record made in his regard.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 55.
56. The chemist may only charge reasonable fees not exceeding the cost for reproducing or
transcribing documents or the cost for forwarding a copy, in respect of an application to which
paragraph 2 of section 55 applies.
The chemist requesting such fees shall, before proceeding with the copying, transcribing or sending
of the information, inform the client of the approximate amount he will have to pay.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 56.
57. The chemist who, pursuant to the second paragraph of section 60.5 of the Professional Code
(chapter C-26), denies a client access to the information contained in a record made in his regard
shall inform the client in writing that the disclosure would be likely to cause serious harm to the
client or to a third party.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 57.
II. Terms and conditions of the exercise of the right of correction provided for in section 60.6 of the
Professional Code
58. In addition to the particular rules prescribed by law, the chemist shall promptly follow up, at the
latest within 10 days of its receipt, on any request made by a client whose purpose is:
(1) to cause to be corrected any information that is inaccurate, incomplete or ambiguous with
regard to the purpose for which it was collected, contained in a document concerning him in any
record established in his respect;
(2) to cause to be deleted any information that is outdated or not justified by the object of the
record that concerns him;
(3) to file in the record that concerns him the written comments that he prepared.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 58.
59. The chemist who grants an application referred to in section 58 shall issue to the client, free of
charge, a copy of the document or part of the document to allow the client to see for himself that
the information was corrected or deleted or, as the case may be, an attestation that the written
comments prepared by the client were filed in the record.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 59.
60. Upon written request from the client, the chemist shall forward a copy, free of charge for the
client, of corrected information or an attestation that the information was deleted or, as the case
may be, that written comments were filed in the record to any person from whom the chemist
received the information that was subject to the correction, deletion or comments and to any person
to whom the information was provided.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 60.
III. Obligation for the chemist to give the documents to the client
61. The chemist shall promptly follow up on any written request made by a client, whose purpose is
to take back a document entrusted to him by the client.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 61.
§8. Determination and payment of fees
62. The chemist shall charge and accept fair and reasonable fees.
Fees are fair and reasonable if they are warranted by the circumstances and proportionate to the
services rendered.
O.C 27-2001, s. 62.
63. The chemist shall refrain from claiming fees for professional services not performed or falsely
described.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 63.
64. The chemist shall, in particular, take into account the following factors when fixing his fees:
(1) his experience;
(2) the time given to the carrying out of the professional service;
(3) the difficulty and magnitude of the service;
(4) the performance of unusual services or services requiring exceptional competence or celerity;
(5) the responsibility assumed.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 64.
65. In the carrying out of a mandate, the chemist shall, when he has the choice as to means, suggest
to his client the least onerous method without, however, sacrificing the quality of the service to be
rendered.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 65.
66. The chemist shall provide his client with all the explanations required for the understanding of
his statement of fees and for the terms and conditions of payment.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 66.
67. The chemist shall refrain from demanding advance payment for his services; he shall, on the
other hand, notify his client of the approximate cost of his services, except where he may reasonably
assume that the client is already informed thereof.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 67.
68. The chemist may collect interest on outstanding accounts only after having duly notified his
client thereof. The interest so charged shall be at a reasonable rate.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 68.
69. The chemist that appoints another person or organism to collect his fees shall, as far as possible,
ensure that the latter will act with tact and moderation.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 69.
70. Before having recourse to legal proceedings, the chemist shall have exhausted all other means at
his disposal for obtaining payment of his fees.
O.. 27-2001, s. 70.
71. The chemist shall avoid selling or give away his accounts for professional fees, unless to a
colleague.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 71.
72. The chemist shall share his fees with a colleague only to the extent that such sharing
corresponds to a distribution of services and responsibilities.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 72.
73. For a given service, the chemist shall only accept fees from a single source, unless explicitly
agreed otherwise by all the parties concerned. He shall accept payment of these fees only from his
client or the latter's representative.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 73.
DIVISION IV
DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS TOWARDS THE PROFESSION
§1. Derogatory acts
74. In addition to those referred to in sections 59 and 59.1 of the Professional Code (chapter C-26),
or to those that can be determined in accordance with subparagraph 1 of the second paragraph of
section 152 of the Code, the following acts are derogatory to the dignity of the profession:
(1) pressing or repeated inducement to make use of his professional services;
(2) attempting to deceive the competent authorities on the eligibility of a person to become a
member of the order;
(3) abusing in the practice of his profession of the inexperience, the ignorance, or the naivety of
his client;
(4) communicating with a person who requested that an inquiry be held, without prior written
permission of the syndic of the Order or the assistant syndic, where he is informed that he is the
object of an inquiry pursuant to section 122 of the Professional Code or where he has been served
with a complaint in accordance with section 132 of the Code;
(5) participating in or contributing to the commission of an infraction to the Professional Code or
to the Professional Chemists Act (chapter C-15) or profiting knowingly of the commission of such
infraction, in particular concerning the illegal practice of the profession or the title's usurpation;
(6) failing to notify the competent authorities of the Order of any case of illegal practice of the
profession or title's usurpation of which he is aware;
(7) failing to bring to the attention of the syndic that he has reason to believe that a chemist
contravenes the Professional Code or a related regulation made pursuant to the Code;
(8) failing to indicate correctly in the record information obtained during his mandate or falsifying
the record thereof in regard of this information;
(9) using knowingly a method or a process which is not in conformity with the scientific principles;
(10) selling or distributing product's samples destined for analysis purpose or already analysed;
(11) making false statements on the training period realized by an applicant for membership;
(12) put his initials or signature on a report or any document related to the practice of his
profession when they were not prepared by himself or under his direction and his supervision;
(13) agree to execute or participate in the execution of work without respecting the methods,
norms and process generally acknowledged in the profession;
(14) delay the execution of a mandate without reasonable reason;
(15) appropriating, directly or indirectly, dangerous chemical substances, controlled drugs or
narcotics with the intention of using them for purposes other than the practice of his professional
activities.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 74.
§2. Relations with the Order
75. The chemist whose participation in a council for the arbitration of accounts, a disciplinary
council, a professional inspection committee or a revision committee is requested by the Order shall
accept that duty unless he has reasonable grounds for refusing.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 75.
76. The chemist shall answer promptly and truthfully all requests for information or any
correspondence addressed to him by the secretary, the assistant secretary, the syndic, one of his
assistants, investigators or members of the professional inspection committee in the exercise of the
duties devolved upon them by the law and the regulations.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 76.
77. The chemist shall, as promptly as possible, following a request from the secretary of the Order,
communicate to the latter the information required for preparing the roll.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 77.
78. The chemist shall, in his relation with the Order and the other chemists, behave with dignity,
courtesy, respect and integrity.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 78.
§3. Relations with colleagues
79. The chemist shall not abuse a colleague's good faith, deceive his trust, be disloyal towards him or
damage his reputation.
Without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the chemist shall not, particularly:
(1) take credit for work done by a colleague;
(2) take advantage of his position as an employer or manager to limit in any ways the professional
autonomy of a chemist at his service or under his supervision, particularly towards the utilisation of
the title of chemist or the obligation for every chemist to engage his professional liability.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 79.
80. The chemist consulted by a colleague shall provide the latter with his opinion and
recommendations as soon as possible.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 80.
81. The chemist called upon to collaborate with a colleague shall maintain his professional
independence. If he is given a task contrary to his conscience or principles, he may ask to be excused
from doing it.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 81.
§4. Contribution to the advancement of the profession
82. The chemist shall, as far as he is able, contribute to the development of his profession by sharing
his knowledge and experience with his colleagues and students and by his participation in courses
and continuing training periods.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 82.
DIVISION V
CONDITIONS, OBLIGATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS RESPECTING ADVERTISING
83. The chemist shall not engage in or allow the use of, by any means whatsoever, advertising that is
false, misleading or reasonably liable to mislead.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 83.
84. The chemist shall have his name and professional title appear in his advertisement.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 84.
85. The chemist who, in his advertising, claims to process skills or specific qualities, particularly in
respect of the effectiveness or scope of his services and of those generally ensured by other
members of his profession or his level of competence, shall be able to substantiate such claim.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 85.
86. The chemist shall see that the persons working with him in the practice of his profession, in any
capacity whatsoever, comply with the rules respecting advertising.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 86.
87. The chemist may not use advertising practices liable to denigrate or discredit another chemist or
pretend that his services are superior to those provided by his colleagues.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 87.
88. The chemist in expressing scientific opinions through any public information media, shall:
(1) inform the public of the opinions generally accepted in chemistry on the subject;
(2) avoid any uncalled for publicity favouring a product, a process or a method.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 88.
89. The chemist who advertises fees or prices rate shall:
(1) establish fees or fixed prices for the advertised services;
(2) specify the nature and extent of the services included in the fees or in the prices;
(3) indicate whether additional services not included in the fees or in the prices might be required;
(4) indicate whether or not charges or disbursements are included in those fees or in those prices.
Any fees or any prices shall remain in effect for a minimum period of 90 days after they were was last
broadcast or published. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing prevents the chemist from agreeing
with a client on a price lower than the one published or broadcast.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 89.
90. In the case of an advertisement relating to a special price or a discount, the chemist must
mention the period of validity of the price or discount, as the case may be. That period may not be
less than 90 days.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 90.
91. Explanations and indications respecting the advertisement of fees or prices of a chemist shall be
of such nature as to reasonably inform persons who have no particular knowledge of chemistry.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 91.
92. The chemist shall keep a complete copy of every advertisement in its original form for a period of
5 years following the date on which it was last published or broadcast. The copy shall be given to the
syndic or one of his assistants upon request.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 92.
93. The chemist may not, by any means whatsoever, engage in or allow the use of any advertising
intended for persons who may be emotionally or physically vulnerable because of their age, of their
state of health or of the occurrence of a specific event.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 93.
94. The chemist may not, in his advertising, use or allow the use of an endorsement or statement of
gratitude concerning him, except awards for excellence and other prizes received in recognition of a
contribution or an achievement the honour of which is shared by all members of the profession.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 94.
95. The chemists who are partners in the practice of their profession are solidarily responsible for
complying with the rules respecting advertising, unless one of them demonstrates that the
advertising was made without his knowledge and consent and in spite of the measures taken to
ensure compliance with those rules.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 95.
DIVISION VI
GRAPHIC SYMBOL OF THE ORDRE DES CHIMISTES DU QUÉBEC
96. The Ordre des chimistes du Québec is represented by a graphic symbol that is in conformity with
the original held by the secretary of the Order.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 96.
97. The chemist that reproduces the graphic symbol of the Order in his advertising shall ensure that
such reproduction is in conformity with the original by the secretary of the Order.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 97.
98. The chemist that uses the graphic symbol of the Order in his advertising, elsewhere than on a
business card, shall include the following notice in the advertisement:
“This advertisement is not an advertisement of the Ordre des chimistes du Québec and entails the
liability of its author only.”
O.C. 27-2001, s. 98.
DIVISION VII
NAME OF A CHEMISTS' PARTNERSHIP
99. The name of a chemists' partnership shall include only the names of members who are practising
together. However, the name of a deceased or retired member may be retained in the partnership
name.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 99.
100. Where a chemist withdraws from a partnership to practise alone, to join another partnership or
to fulfil a duty that is incompatible with the practice of his profession, his name shall be removed
from the partnership name within one year of his withdrawal, unless there is an agreement in writing
to the contrary.
O.C. 27-2001, s. 100.
DIVISION VIII
FINAL PROVISIONS
101. This Regulation replaces the Code of ethics of chemists (R.R.Q., 1981, c. C-15, r. 2).
O.C. 27-2001, s. 101.
102. (Omitted).
O.C. 27-2001, s. 102
REFERENCES
O.C. 27-2001, 2001 G.O. 2, 1017
O.C. 21-2004, 2004 G.O. 2, 808
S.Q. 2008, c. 11, s. 212
Colegio de Químicos de Puerto Rico
Region: GRULAC
Country: Puerto Rico
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Fundamental Principle
Each chemist must honor their profession by observing a professional conduct of excellence, working efficiently, with exactitude, with integrity and honorably; and maintaining a high standard of working relationships and above all aiming to promote the good of society.

Rules for their Relationships with the Profession

1.  Each Chemist will promote the advance of Chemistry using their resources.
2.  They will be careful, judgemental, and exact in their calculations; and in the drafting of reports, projects and testimonies.
3.  Each chemist has the right to a fair and reasonable compensation, within the profession’s parameters and/or the institution that employs him/her and will not use questionable methods to achieve compensation.
4.  Each chemist will be on alert to avoid, reject and denounce every activity, attitude, and act that seeks to ease the practice of the profession by non qualified people.
5.  Each Chemist will maintain a high standard of competence within the profession, keeping up to date with the advances of science and technology in its field and complying with the provisions of regulations, in relation to Continuous Education and the acquisition and maintaining of the license that authorizes him/her to practice as a Chemist as stipulated in the laws of the Free Associated State of Puerto Rico.
6.  Chemists can participate in radio and/or television programs to give scientific opinions as individuals or as representatives of the School of Chemists or its members, if they are requested by the regulation of the School or by the Commission of Governors of the School. They will make it clear when they are making a personal opinion, and will be able to do so freely as long as they act correctly, moderately, and within the boundaries of science that highlight their  professional condition.
Rules regarding their Relationships with the School of Chemists

1.  Each Chemist shall give written notice to the Commission of Defense and Professional Conduct about any violation of laws and regulations and, in particular, of this School, related to the practice of chemistry by non qualified people.
2.  Only a qualified and registered chemist has the right to use the stamp of the School of Chemist of Puerto Rico, they will be able to use it in their correspondence and/or papers and envelopes, with their name and license number duly printed so that they can be identified easily and is in particular not an official document of the School.  Plaques and stickers provided by the School are an exception.
3.  Any chemist providing scientific opinions in any radio and/or TV program, will do so publicly, and will not appear to be sanctioned or supported by the School of Chemists, even if they are a member of the Governing Committee.
Rules for Relationships between Colleagues:
1.  They will be upright, correct and gentlemanly in their professional relationships.

2.  They will exchange technical information and professional experience with their colleagues and will do this when it is not in conflict of interests with their superiors, employer or clients and, in case of conflict, the common good to society will prevail.
3.  When using a method, technique, material or object developed by a chemist or scientific colleague, they will always state where that method, technique, material or object came from and they will not attribute its invention to someone else in their papers or through their actions.
4.  Any chief chemist or colleague providing results or data to the public, to private entities or to the government through investigation reports, or although routine, will give the adequate credit to their subordinates and colleagues for their participation in the preparation of such reports.
5.  They will not accept any compensation for managing or providing work for other chemists, unless that is their job: to provide work for others, and therefore to receive a fair and reasonable compensation for their efforts.
6.  When competing with colleagues to obtain professional work, they shall apply worthy methods, be honest and not cause harm directly or indirectly, by taking action or by omitting and using unworthy methods, to a colleague’s reputation, opportunities or business.
7.  They will not compete with their colleagues in earning fees through the use of laboratory or other facilities that provides them with a position or remunerated employment.

Rules for their Relationships with Clients

1.  They will provide their services to the general public without cheating and will provide their best skills, aptitudes, knowledge and experiences, so that their services are of high quality.

2.  They will exchange with their colleagues information coming from a professional relationship with a client – but only when this will not be a conflict of interests with their clients.

3.  They will not accept economic or other rewards from more than one person, without the written consent of the parties. They will be able, nevertheless, to provide professional services to more than one person or entity, so long as theirs is no contracted interests. 

4.  Their fees will be regulated by the institution, agency or person that has become their client, by their parameters, when the owner of their business or provider of consultancy services. In any case fees will not contradict the rules of the School, even if they seem fair to the client.

Rules for their Relationship with Society
1.  Every Chemist will observe faithfully the laws of the community of which they live and will observe the rules of citizenship compatible with the healthy public ethics. 

2.  No Chemist will refuse to provide the results of their achievements, discoveries and developments to anyone that needs them, when they could be of use for the protection or improvement of the common good; they will not retain exclusively any method, technique or material that could be beneficial for the advancement of chemistry in particular or of science in general.

3.  The professional chemist will try to make the most of the opportunities to educate the public, in general or individually, in a simple and humble manner, in those areas relevant to their knowledge, because, generally speaking, in our society, people do not have the necessary knowledge to understand or interpret the results of experiments and/or scientific observations.

4.  Every chemist has the duty to protect the public from impostors or people without the necessary knowledge pretending to carry out the profession.

Rules for their Relationship with the Free Associated State of Puerto Rico

1.  Every chemist should seek to faithfully observe the laws of the state regulating the practice of their profession. 

a.  They will not do or promote work or experiments violating the statutes of the State.

b.  They will not use their knowledge for the production and/or purification of drugs of abuse for illegal sale to addicts.

c.  They will not use their knowledge for the production of instruments for terrorists.

2.  They will be able to acquire rights and patents and the remuneration derived from them, when this does not prevent the use or investigation of the material or object patented. 





__________________________          __________________________
Lic. Adnalia Flores González            Lic. María E. Ramírez Marrero
President 2000-2001             Secretary 2000-2001
Czech Chemical Society
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Czech Republic
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Our civilization as we know it today is inextricably linked to advances in chemistry and we are extremely appreciative of our responsibility to the people and to future generations. Many things that today seem perfectly normal were unthinkable not so long ago. Thanks to chemistry as it is today, many people are regularly supplied with food, sufficient quantities of medicines and other values so that the people’s life expectancy grows and has doubled that of the last century. In our daily life, we also reap the benefits of increasingly better materials. This being said, chemists are increasingly confronted with the need for new solutions. The dramatic increase in the number of people on earth must surely result in the risk of overpopulation, there are many diseases that still cannot be treated and the people must be fed and clothed. Even in their enthusiasm for new discoveries, chemists never lose sight of their ethical and social standards. It is understood that any new methods and progress include elements of risk that may lead to public criticism. Safety standards are high in the industry, coupled with high levels of chemical safety training and education creates unique conditions for further development. Chemists are aware of the scope of the problems and the impact of their work and are aware of the necessity to assume responsibility to future generations as well as to maintain high standards of living, which should also remain in the future.
The CCS supports freedom, tolerance and truth in science and is committed to the support of its members. Its particular vocation is to endeavour to improve the position of chemistry, knowledge of chemistry and skills. All CCS members are aware of the fact that they, especially, are to be held responsible for the impact of their work on the people and the environment. The CCS and its members support and promote the sustainable and permanent development of society, the economy and the environment. In their work there is always an element of responsibility to future generations. We comply with all legal requirements relating to our work, our results and their impact must always be against the misuse of chemistry as, for example, in the development of chemical weapons or drugs. They are committed to the use of truthful information in the acquisition and dissemination of knowledge of chemistry and do not use dishonest methods.
Discussing anything not in line with these principles destroys the reputation of the profession and as such is incompatible with membership in the CCS. Chemists bear personal responsibility for their work and for information produced as a result. In doing so, they must take into account any of these requirements and how they can be used in their own field. In order to comply with these ideals members CCS undertake:
1.  To identify the purpose of any proposed work to be sure it is necessary, useful and is likely to be successful. Consider its implications and social and environmental impact.
2.  To ensure that all work is immediately, competently, accurately and permanently recorded by the person who performed the work, and that the same is true of its subsequent processing and reporting to ensure its integrity and usability as long as it may be needed.
3.  To make sure that all materials, including samples, are identified, safely handled, properly used, transported, distributed and classified and that the information regarding them is adequate.
4.  To bear full responsibility for their work and to take decisions regarding its engineering consistent with the health, safety and general welfare of the people and immediately bring to light any element that may jeopardise or adversely affect the environment.
5.  To respect the laws and values of the country in which it operates.
6.  To avoid conflicts of interest, whether genuine or inferred, wherever they might affect professional solutions or have a negative impact on the environment and, where possible, to weed out these conflicts and to reveal the identity of interested parties, if known.
7.  To be honest and realistic in claims and estimates based on available data.
8.  To be impartial in decision-making and assessment.
9.  To reject bribes in any form.
10. To use only the titles and designations to which they have a right.
11. To improve the level of education in the field of chemistry.
12. To maintain and improve professional and technical competence and to authorize scientific and technological tasks to third parties only as fits their level of qualification and professional experience, or after full disclosure of the relevant limitations.
13. To seek, receive and offer honest criticism of technical work leading to the detection and correction of technical errors and to properly indicate the authorship of others.
14. To behave equally to all, regardless of their function, race, religion, gender, health, age or nationality.
15. To avoid possible harm to health, reputation, employment or other property on the basis of false information or malicious activity.
16. To assist colleagues and co-workers in their professional development and support them in compliance with this Code.

DECHEMA
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

draws on the technical and organizational expertise of DECHEMA for the organization of capital goods fairs. Together with DECHEMA Gesellschaft für Chemische Technik und Biotechnologie e.V., we are the organizers of ACHEMA and AchemAsia. As world forum for chemical engineering, environmental protection and biotechnology ACHEMA is the trend-setting international technology summit for the process industry. With events like AchemAsia in Beijing / PR China we furthermore offer our branch regional, trend-setting platforms in the emerging markets worldwide.
Abidance by International Conventions and Legal Guidelines
We act in conformity with international conventions and legal order. This especially applies to guidelines that prevent the abuse of scientific findings (e.g. for chemical or biological weapons).
Non-Discrimination Rule 
We reject any form of discrimination. Discrimination based on ethnic or cultural background, gender, religion, disability, age or sexual orientation is not tolerated.
Anti-Trust Law
Infringements of anti-trust law are prohibited. This especially applies to
♣   price-fixing, zoning or similar between competing enterprises.
♣   exchange of information on prices, turn overs, business transactions etc. as far as they are not already published
Participants of committee meetings are informed of this and indicate their acknowledgement with their signature on the participants' list. Should violations occur in the course of a meeting the employees in charge are required to stop corresponding discussions and agreements.
Information and Data Protection
DECHEMA Ausstellungs-GmbH takes all necessary measures to protect confidential information and personal data. Trustful cooperation is only possible if confidential information enjoys maximum protection. Our employees are obliged to handle all information with care. This applies to the safekeeping of protocols and other documents against the unauthorised access by third parties as well as maintaining confidentiality. Please note that the use or disclosure of insider information - e.g. in connection with securities transactions - can lead to legal proceedings. We take the protection of personal data seriously. Every employee has to comply with the legal requirements and privacy statement which are part of the employment contract. In cases of doubt DECHEMA's data protection officer is to be consulted.
Labor and Social Standards, Occupational Safety
DECHEMA Ausstellungs-GmbH is a responsible employer meeting existing labor and social standards. We offer our employees a secure working environment. The same applies to the participants of our events, their security has highest priority.
Donations and Sponsoring
Donations and sponsoring can only be made to charitable bodies whose work is in accordance with DECHEMA's objectives.
Invitations and Gratuities
Granting and receiving gifts and other gratuities is only accepted in accordance with applicable law. Since our activities significantly depend on the personal encounter between people a sound judgement is required in this context. In cases of doubt a consultation with the superior is recommended. This applies to invitations as well as gifts. This not only serves the internal transparency but protects the employee from unjustified assumptions. In return, the proportionality of invitations to honorary members and cooperation partners must be kept in mind. Particular caution applies to officials who are not permitted to accept gratuities.
Professional Communication
Every form of communication, be it a letter, an e-mail or any other channel contributes to the perception and therefore to the image of our company. Appropriate manners and legal regulations (e.g. imprint obligations) are to be considered at any time.
Personal opinions must be clearly identifiable as such and must be treated with caution in the working environment. The central function 'Communication' has to be included in all contacts with media. If useful, we support the use of social media for professional issues and recommend a consultation with the superior where appropriate.

Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 
Recommendations for Handling 
Security-Relevant ResearchI. Introductory guidelines 
A. Freedom of research and responsibility of scientists 
Research plays a fundamental role in ensuring the progress of mankind. It serves to increase knowledge and promote the health, prosperity and security of mankind and the protection of the environment. The freedom of research, which is enshrined in Article 5 Paragraph 3 of the Ger-man Basic Law and may only be legally restricted to protect other important constitutionally protected values, is the main requirement for this. Furthermore, scientifically successful re-search requires transparency, which is afforded primarily by the free exchange of knowledge and the publication of research findings. 
Yet free and transparent research is also associated with risks. Such risks do not necessarily result from negligence or deliberate misconduct by scientists. In all areas of science, there is also the danger that findings – which are neutral or useful per se – may be misused by third parties for harmful purposes. In defence technology, materials research and nanotechnology can lead to the development of offensive weapons; research on industrial robots can enable the construction of robots for combat; atomic energy can be used for non-peaceful purposes. Re-search findings on pathogenic microorganisms and toxins can also be used for new biological weapons and terrorist attacks, and genetic analyses of plants at the molecular level can lead to biological attacks on seeds. In computer science, research into protecting systems against computer viruses can facilitate not only their prevention but their spread and new forms of cyber warfare. Misuse of research is also feasible in medicine as well as in the behavioural sciences and social sciences. Psychological, medical and neurobiological research can support aggres-sive interrogation techniques up to and including torture. Optimising the collection, matching and analysis of personal data can lead to a violation of personal rights. Linguistic research on speech recognition systems can also be employed to inappropriately monitor communications. Legal and philosophical publications can be misused to justify human rights abuses. Risks of misuse therefore exist in most areas of research. At the same time, failing to conduct research can also entail significant risks, such as when a vaccine needs to be found to avert an imminent epidemic. 
This possibility of using research findings for both beneficial and harmful purposes (known as the dual use dilemma) makes it difficult to make a clear distinction in many fields between “good” and “bad” research, defensive and offensive research, and research for peaceful or ter-rorist purposes. This dual use dilemma also exists in knowledge-oriented basic research, where results often cannot be predicted and research findings are not good or bad in and of them-selves. Judging this kind of research is also difficult because future use chains are often un-known and estimating risks and consequences tricky. These problems are particularly acute when research findings can be misused as is, without intermediate steps (known as dual use research of concern – DURC). 
Within this complex matrix of benefits and risks, the role of science is to carry out research for the welfare of humankind and the protection of the environment and other values – especially those that are constitutionally protected. Scientists must therefore prevent or minimise direct or indirect harm to values deserving of protection as far as possible. In addition to the feasibility of research, they should therefore also take its consequences and controllability into account where possible. In individual areas, they must decide how much protection specific values de-serve, assuming the decision has not already been regulated by law. Science is therefore sub-ject to ethical as well as legal constraints. Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft / Leopoldina: Wissenschaftsfreiheit und Wissenschaftsverantwortung – Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 25 
B. Legal and ethical constraints on research 
Research constraints are in the first instance determined by legal provisions. These may restrict the freedom of research to protect significant constitutionally protected values, provided this is proportionate. The relevant provisions have different objectives and approaches. They may prohibit research objectives (e.g. the development of nuclear and biological weapons), regulate methods (e.g. certain experiments on humans) or ban the export of knowledge, services and products to certain countries (e.g. within the framework of German foreign trade law or EU regu-lation 428/2009 on the control of exports of dual use items and technology). 
Scientists are individually responsible for adhering to applicable legal provisions.11 They must inform themselves of the provisions applicable to their area of research and ensure they are adhered to within the scope of their responsibilities. Violations of legal provisions can lead to protracted proceedings with prohibitions, sanctions and penalties as well as a loss of reputation for the scientist, their institution and their entire field. Research institutions also have a legal responsibility. They should therefore support their staff in complying with applicable legal provi-sions (compliance). By doing so, they are also protecting themselves and meeting their legal duty of supervision, which may require them to intervene in the event of a legal violation. 
11 Researchers and institutions in Germany are subject to German law. Outside of Germany, they are subject to the applicable law of that location. In addition, researchers and institutions working abroad may also be subject to their own national law. International law also applies (e.g. protection of human rights, international humanitarian law, law of war, bans on torture and the use of force, Convention on Biological Diversity). 
Yet individual scientists cannot content themselves with just complying with legal regulations. Their knowledge and experience and the freedom afforded to them gives them a special re-sponsibility that goes beyond legal obligations. They must therefore use their knowledge, expe-rience and skills to recognise, estimate and assess relevant risks. In critical cases, these indi-viduals must make a personal decision about the constraints on their work, and take responsibility for that decision within the scope of their freedom of research. In some cases, the result may be that some projects – even those that are not prohibited by law – must be carried out in a different form or not at all. 
In addition to laws imposed by governments, the self-regulation of science is highly significant. Self-regulatory instruments are founded on a high level of expertise and familiarity with the sub-ject and can take on a preliminary warning function in the face of new problems. They can also react quickly and flexibly and can autonomously solve problems connected with security-relevant research. In the process, they are often better able than legal regulations to stay abreast of the continually changing research landscape, account for difficult dual-use risk esti-mates, and make the difficult value judgments that follow – especially in cooperation with spe-cialised committees. 
Similarly, scientific organisations have a duty to create aids and structural framework conditions for ethically responsible research. The same is true for influential institutions that promote re-search. 
C. The aim of the following recommendations 
With the present guidelines and recommendations, the German Research Foundation (DFG) and the National Academy of Sciences (Leopoldina) intend to raise awareness of the problems Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft / Leopoldina: Wissenschaftsfreiheit und Wissenschaftsverantwortung – Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 26 
mentioned above, raise awareness of risks, provide ethical guidelines to assist with answering ethical questions, and minimise risks through self-regulation. 
The following recommendations are aimed at all persons who are involved in scientific research. They were developed primarily for the government-funded research sector. Statements about researchers’ personal ethical responsibility for their work and statements about risk analysis and risk reduction requirements also generally apply to researchers in the industrial sector.12 The recommendations are also intended to encourage scientific institutions to create corresponding organisational framework conditions for themselves. 
12 However, recommendations regarding how industrial research should be performed as well as those regarding the integration of ethics committees in industrial research are covered and qualified in particular by labour law. 
13 See, for example, for the field of medical research on humans: Declaration of the World Medical Association of Hel-sinki/Tokyo (1964/75) with various subsequent revisions. For the field of bio-security: German Research Foundation – Code of Conduct: work with highly pathogenic microorganisms and toxins, 2013; National Science Advisory Board for Bio Security, Proposed Framework for the Oversight of Dual Use Life Sciences Research: Strategy for Minimizing the Potential Misuse of Research Information, 2007, Strategic Plan for Outreach and Education on Dual Use Research Issues, 2008; Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, Biosecurity Committee, Improving Bio Security – Assessment of Dual-Use Research, Advisory Report, 2013. See also the recommendations published by the German Ethics Council 7 May 2014 entitled “Biosecurity – freedom and responsibility of research”. 
The DFG and Leopoldina urge researchers to reflect on the ethical principles cited in these rec-ommendations and to take them into account and put them in concrete terms during their work. Research institutions should implement the proposed regulations – after adapting them for their particular needs – and supplement them if necessary with additional subject-specific self-regulatory measures (e.g. subject-specific codes and committees)13 in order to identify and min-imise potential risks. The DFG, as an institution for the advancement of research, and the Leo-poldina, in its superordinate role as National Academy of Sciences, will provide strong support for the dissemination and broad acceptance of the recommendations and will work towards ensuring compliance with the principles laid down. 
II. Recommendations on a responsible approach to security-relevant research 
A. General recommendations on ethically responsible research 
1. General principle 
Science serves to increase knowledge and has a duty to promote human well-being and the protection of the environment and other values – especially those that are constitutionally pro-tected. Researchers need to prevent direct and indirect harm to these values as far as possible. 
When making decisions in this context, they cannot content themselves with complying with legal regulations but must also observe ethical principles. They need to be fundamentally aware of the danger of misused research. In critical cases, these individuals must draw on their knowledge and experience to make a personal decision about what is responsible with regard to their research. In doing so, they need to weigh the opportunities offered by the research against the risks for human dignity, life, health, freedom and property, the protection of the envi-ronment and other values. Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft / Leopoldina: Wissenschaftsfreiheit und Wissenschaftsverantwortung – Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 27 
The following concrete measures must not be permitted to inappropriately hinder research and are subject to feasibility and proportionality. 
2. Risk analysis 
Awareness of the potential risks is a prerequisite for responsible research. Raising awareness of the relevant dangers is thus a key requirement in the avoidance, or at least control, of re-search risks. Researchers should therefore take account of the consequences and opportunities for application and misuse of their work and its controllability. In doing so, they should also con-sider the risks of not conducting the research in question. 
The identification of research risks not only concerns risks relating to individual conduct. In cas-es where research is susceptible to risk of misuse, researchers should also take account of the consequences of their work and the possibility that useful research findings could be misused for harmful purposes by third parties. Risk analysis and the evaluation of consequences require an open-minded and responsible approach. It may be necessary for researchers to find out about the context of the research project or about the commissioning parties and cooperation partners. 
3. Minimising risk 
Researchers and other persons involved in their projects should minimise, as far as possible, the risks associated with the implementation or use of their work. Measures on risk minimisation should be assessed and carried out both before and during an ongoing research project. 
This may result in the implementation of security measures (e.g. to prevent the release or theft of dangerous substances from laboratories) or special protection of the confidentiality of re-search results through physical, organisational and information technology means (e.g. encryp-tion of saved and transmitted data). Such security measures and access restrictions do not conflict with the requirement for transparency because research results are not required to be made accessible to everyone at all times (see also II.A.4). 
Employees and cooperation partners working on research susceptible to misuse must be se-lected meticulously based on their reliability and sense of responsibility. In the event that the spread of security-relevant research results poses a particular risk (such as in the context of weapons of mass destruction or export restrictions), it may be appropriate to work with special advisory services, legal departments at research organisations, or government security authori-ties.14 
14 See, for example, regarding biological threats the Centre for Biological Threats and Special Pathogens (ZBS) at the Robert Koch Institute; for computer security issues the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI); regarding embargo violations the Federal Office of Economics and Export Control (BAFA). 
Risk minimisation measures may also consist of only carrying out specific research for or with certain cooperation partners. While international cooperation is a fundamental element of suc-cessful research, in individual cases a restriction of international cooperation or avoidance of partners or staff from certain countries may nevertheless be recommendable from a risk minimi-sation perspective. National and international provisions and lists on export restrictions may constitute a basis for identifying countries where misuse of certain research results is a danger. Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft / Leopoldina: Wissenschaftsfreiheit und Wissenschaftsverantwortung – Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 28 
4. Evaluating publications 
The possible consequences of publishing results in high-risk research areas should be evaluat-ed even before the start of the project. This applies, in particular, in cases where research re-sults alone – without additional knowledge or elaborate implementation or application processes – can lead to specific dangers or significant damages (dual use research of concern). 
In such cases, security interests conflict with the interest of publishing research results. The free exchange of information and especially the publication of results are important factors for scien-tific knowledge and scientific progress, particularly in government-funded and knowledge-oriented research. They also benefit transparency, reproducibility, scrutiny and in turn quality assurance for the research process. Moreover, the publication of results can promote the de-velopment of protective measures (e.g. vaccines in healthcare or antivirus programs in IT). Suppression of research results may prevent effective protection against their misuse by totali-tarian regimes, terrorist groups, organised criminal groups or individual criminals. 
The requirements for transparency and communication do not, however, prevent scientists from minimising specific risks of their research by delaying the publication of the results of their work instead of publishing immediately. In the case of research results with a high degree of potential for misuse, parts of the results which are particularly susceptible to misuse may be excluded from the publication or published in an abridged form in special cases – provided that the reader is made aware of these changes. In certain cases, researchers may only share specific results of their work with certain persons. 
Complete avoidance of the communication and publication of research results may only be con-sidered if there are no other ways of countering the dangers. However, this is only justified in extraordinary cases. 
The above principles also apply to researchers who are involved in the scientific publication process, for example as peer reviewers or editors. Researchers in such positions working in relevant risk areas should ensure that the publication of research results and the policy of the publishing houses and other institutions they are working with conform to the principles set out here. 
5. Forgoing research as a last resort 
The primary goal of risk analysis is to carry out and communicate research in a responsible way. However, responsible decision-making by researchers may in individual cases – when no other protective mechanisms exist – lead to a high-risk project only being carried out at a later point in time, following a research moratorium, or perhaps not at all, even when the project is not prohibited by law. 
In dual use research, which can have harmful as well as beneficial effects, it is difficult to deter-mine and apply criteria for the constraints mentioned here. The necessary ethical evaluation of the remaining risks that follows the definition of possible protective measures may be assisted by examining whether the potential damages of the research outweigh the potential benefits. 
Scientific freedom and the benefit of the research as well as the risk of damages should be tak-en into account when examining this point. The following factors should be considered: the probability that damages will occur, the extent of possible damages, the extent to which the research results could be used for harmful purposes with or without complex implementation processes. Finally, consideration should be given to whether misuse can be prevented and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft / Leopoldina: Wissenschaftsfreiheit und Wissenschaftsverantwortung – Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 29 
extent to which the consequences can be controlled. Other decisive factors include the identity of the cooperation partners, customers, users and funders of the research. 
6. Documentation and communication of risks 
If research entails risks for human dignity, life or well-being or for the environment or other sig-nificant values with constitutional protection, scientists should document these risks, how they weigh up against possible benefits, and the measures taken to minimise them both before and, in the event of changes, during their work. Scientists should bring this documentation to the attention of the research ethics committee responsible for these problems (see II.B.2 below) or the head of their institution before the research begins. 
Relevant risks and measures taken to minimise them should be noted on applications for re-search funding. Scientific advisory boards and other groups evaluating the research should be informed of these risks and measures as early as possible and should take a position on them in their reports. 
7. Training and information 
In their university teaching and their training of junior scientists, researchers should communi-cate the principles of a responsible approach to research risks and set a good example. When doing so, researchers should also cover the subject-specific rules on risk minimisation for their respective field of research. Researchers should also contribute to raising awareness about these issues when they carry out their projects (see also II.B.3 below). 
8. Persons responsible 
Evaluating whether research complies with legal provisions, self-regulatory measures and ethi-cal principles is, in the first instance, the task of the scientists responsible for the project. In ad-dition, the scientists’ superiors bear responsibility, in particular within the scope of their legally required duty of supervision. 
The persons involved in the research should primarily inform the scientist responsible for the project, but if necessary also that scientist’s supervisor and the responsible research ethics committee (see II.B.2), of legal violations that have occurred or could occur, as well as any ethi-cal reservations. 
The principles set out here also apply when scientists are involved in evaluating the projects of other researchers. Employees in such positions should ensure that research applications set out and minimise possible risks in risk areas and account for these principles.15 
15 On the area of application of these recommendations, see also I.C. above. Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft / Leopoldina: Wissenschaftsfreiheit und Wissenschaftsverantwortung – Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 30 
B. Supplementary organisational recommendations for research institu-tions 
1. Legal provisions and compliance units 
Research institutions need to raise awareness of the issue among their staff and convey the required knowledge of legal constraints on research in their specific areas of activity. 
Research institutions that carry out work at the margins of the law or high-risk work should have a special unit for ensuring compliance with legal provisions (known as a compliance unit). This unit should support the head of the institution and their staff in complying with legal provisions on research constraints, provide relevant policies and train those persons doing the research in relevant measures. The unit should be able to report directly to the head of the research institu-tion if possible and collect any necessary information from the institution’s staff members. Small institutions may transfer these tasks to an existing organisational unit (e.g. legal department or auditing). 
Research institution staff members should be able to turn to the compliance unit at any time if they are of the opinion that the institution or its cooperation partners are not complying with legal provisions to prevent the misuse of research. Regulations to protect whistleblowers should be in place and should ensure that people can report incidents without this disadvantaging them.16 
16 See the DFG’s recommendations on good scientific practice of 2013, No. 17. 
If research violates legally binding provisions, the institution head must take the necessary steps. 
2. Ethics rules and research ethics committees 
Research institutions should also define ethics rules for handling security-relevant research that meet the provisions listed in II.A and B or that achieve the goals of those provisions in another equivalent form. Special additional provisions can be considered for specialised areas of re-search when these must accommodate relevant international regulations and recommenda-tions. 
Each research institution should form a special research ethics committee to advise on issues arising from the implementation of ethics rules. This committee should provide researchers with support on issues of research ethics, mediate in differences of opinion between researchers on relevant matters, and issue recommendations on the implementation of research projects. The committee’s powers and actions must be compatible with researchers’ scientific freedom. This is particularly true when committee decisions are set to be compulsorily enforced or reinforced with sanctions. 
The process of selecting committee members should lend committee decisions a high degree of legitimacy (e.g. election of members or nomination by the institution’s research associates). Committee members should perform their committee responsibilities independently of all bind-ing mandates. The committee should be made up of persons with sufficient scientific expertise to handle each particular case in question. The committee should be able to request in an ap-propriate way information from all staff members to ascertain the facts it needs and consult ap- Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft / Leopoldina: Wissenschaftsfreiheit und Wissenschaftsverantwortung – Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 31 
propriate sources in person or in writing. A set of bylaws should regulate the most important procedural issues (legal hearings of affected scientists, protection of whistleblowers, impartiality of deciding committee members, powers of committee to collect information) and the commit-tee’s decision-making powers. 
Every researcher at the institution should be able to task the research ethics committee with verifying whether planned and ongoing projects are compatible with the institution’s ethics rules. 
3. Education and training 
Research institutions should promote the necessary awareness of ethical constraints on re-search, e.g. through relevant campaigns, educational events and corresponding information requirements on funding applications. They should promote the training events cited above (in II.A.7) for their employees at the institutional level and incorporate them in their teaching and training programmes.17 
17 See also the German Association of University Professors and Lecturers’ (DHV) resolution from the 60th DHV Day entitled “Wissenschaft im Dienst des Menschen” (science in the service of mankind), published in Forschung und Lehre 2010, p. 324. Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft / Leopoldina: Wissenschaftsfreiheit und Wissenschaftsverantwortung – Scientific Freedom and Scientific Responsibility 32 
Dow
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

D O W ’ S   C O D E   O F   B U S I N E S S   C O N D U C T
T h e   C o d e ,   t h e   L a w   a n d C o m p a n y P o l i c y
Dow has detailed policies in many areas covered by the Code, and has adopted various industry and external best practices. As  a global company, we must follow the laws of many countries and jurisdictions. If a section of the Code conflicts with applicable local law, then the law takes precedence.
Please consult a Legal Department Attorney or the Office of Ethics and Compliance if you have any questions about local laws, the Code and other Company policies.
P e o p l e
We measure our success not only by the results we achieve, but also by how we achieve them. Every decision we make and every action we take must be driven by the highest sense of business and professional integrity. The result is a safe and trusting work environment, a more unified team and, ultimately, a company culture that offers each of us opportunities to succeed.
Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Respect in the Workplace
When we respect the diversity of our workplace, we create an inclusive environment where everyone can perform to their highest potential.
    We provide equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants regardless of age, race, color, national origin, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, disability, religion or any other factor protected by law.
    Hiring, promotion, compensation and other employment-related decisions are based only on job-related factors.
    We strive to create an environment of mutual respect, free from harassment and unprofessional behavior. Our Respect and Responsibility Policy demonstrates our commitment to preventing all inappropriate behavior in the workplace.
-   Sexual harassment is a particularly harmful form of inappropriate conduct. It can include unwelcome flirtations or sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, unsolicited physical contact, and offensive verbal, visual or physical conduct of a sexual nature. It can also include inappropriate pictures, posters, screen savers, videos or e-mail messages.
-   Bullying and mobbing are unacceptable. This includes any aggressive, intimidating or violent behavior that may create a hostile work environment.
    Avoid conduct and statements that are degrading, offensive, humiliating or intimidating to others. Seemingly innocent actions can create an environment that may be offensive, and we should be alert to our own behavior and the effect it may have on others.
Dow Keyword: Respect and Responsibility
Disrespectful or hostile behavior degrades people and creates disruptions that can harm productivity and performance.
We recognize basic principles of human rights, and we abide by labor and employment laws wherever we operate.
Unsafe or potentially hazardous situations must be reported immediately to a supervisor, Responsible Care leader or site EH&S leader.
We all have a responsibility to work free from the influence of alcohol or other substances that could affect our judgment or safety on the job.
Be aware of erratic, abusive or hostile behavior and report concerns.
Labor Policy
Respect for human rights and dignity is a cornerstone of our business.
    We recognize and respect all labor and employment laws—including those respecting freedom of association, privacy and equal employment opportunity—wherever we operate.
    We believe that working positively and directly with employees best serves their interests.
    We strive to work cooperatively with duly chosen employee representatives in the common pursuit of the interests of the employees and the Company’s mission.
    We do not use forced or involuntary labor.
    We comply with all applicable child labor laws.

Health and Safety in the Workplace
We maintain a safe and healthy work environment and are committed to eliminating work-related injuries and illnesses.
    Employees and the Company share the responsibility to make safety and health a daily priority.
    We support each other in actions to live safely and in good health by utilizing available resources and observing recommended practices.
    We are accountable to take corrective action when an unsafe or hazardous situation is brought to our attention.
Dow Keyword: EH&S
Substance Abuse in the Workplace
Dow is committed to the safety, health and security of employees, our operations and all those who come into contact with them. We will not tolerate substance abuse in the workplace.
Employees are expected to work free from the influence of any substance that could affect judgment or safety on the job.
    We do not permit the use, possession or sale of drugs, controlled substances or drug paraphernalia on Dow premises, in Dow vehicles or while conducting Dow business.
    We do not permit the use or possession of alcohol in Dow vehicles or on Dow premises, except for certain on-site social events where permission has been given in advance.
Dow also reserves the right to conduct drug and alcohol testing as permitted by local law.
Dow Keyword: ES&S
Violence in the Workplace
Dow will not tolerate acts of violence, including verbal or physical threats, intimidation, harassment and coercion.
    Weapons, firearms, ammunition, explosives and incendiary devices are prohibited on Company property. In some locations, the law provides limited exceptions to the prohibition of firearms on Company property.
    Immediately report to a supervisor or Security any behavior that has the potential to become violent or that threatens the safety of people or property.
    For more detailed information regarding the rules for your location, please see the links to the ES&S Area/Region websites.
Dow Keyword: ES&S
Dow reserves the right to search any item on Company property, including offices, desks, computers, purses, briefcases, automobiles, packages and lockers, at any time, as permitted by local law.
Business
Dow is respected as an innovator of science, a supplier of choice and a formidable competitor. Through financial integrity and strong governance, we have successfully established credibility in the marketplace as a top-tier investment.
Conflicts of Interest
We are expected to avoid situations where personal interests conflict, or appear to conflict, with those of the Company. This includes any activity that may cause others to doubt our fairness or interferes with our ability to perform our job objectively.
If there is a chance that a situation might be perceived as a conflict of interest, we must disclose it to a supervisor, HR or the Office of Ethics and Compliance and take steps to get it resolved.
Common conflict of interest situations include:
    Having a financial interest in a company that does business with Dow.
    Receiving compensation or other incentives from a company that does business with Dow.
    Holding a second job that interferes with our ability to do our Dow job.
    Hiring a supplier, distributor or other agent managed or owned by a relative or close friend.
    Engaging in a romantic relationship with a person you report to, or who reports to you.

Conflicts of interest can take many forms. The Code can’t address every potential conflict of interest situation, so we must use good judgment and seek guidance when unsure.
Outside Interests
As employees, we should avoid investments or other financial interests that could interfere, or appear to interfere, with our ability to make decisions in the best interest of the Company.
We must not:
    Hold a financial interest in any Dow customer, supplier, distributor or agent if we are in a position to affect Dow’s business relationship with them.
    Take any opportunity for business or profit that belongs to Dow, or compete with the Company in any way.
The annual Conflict of Interest Questionnaire asks each of us to declare any personal circumstances that may create a conflict of interest. It is important that we respond fully and honestly to the questionnaire as well as promptly notify our supervisor or the Office of Ethics and Compliance if a situation exists.
Outside  Employment
In general, we may work outside of Dow in any lawful occupation as long as these other duties are performed outside of normal working hours and do not interfere with our ability to perform our Dow job.
We must not:
    Be employed by, or receive any compensation from, a Dow customer, supplier, distributor or agent if we are in a position to affect Dow’s business with them.
    Be employed by, or receive any compensation from, any competitor of Dow.
    Serve as an officer or director of any for-profit company outside of Dow without first seeking approval from our supervisor or the Office of Ethics and Compliance. Approval is not necessary for service in a family-owned business or a non-profit or charitable organization, unless the business or organization is a Dow customer, supplier, distributor, agent or competitor.
Speaking at Conferences
If we are invited to speak at a conference because we are a Dow employee or because of our expertise arising from our Dow job responsibilities, we cannot accept compensation. However, in such a situation, the Company can accept reimbursement for reasonable expenses.
Personal relationships and outside interests and activities should not interfere with our job performance or commitment to Dow.
Relatives, Friends and Personal Relationships
Many of us have relatives or friends who have business relationships with Dow, our customers, suppliers, distributors, agents or competitors. These circumstances can raise conflict of interest questions, because others might think we are favoring these relationships above the interests of the Company.
We must disclose to our supervisor or the Office of Ethics and Compliance any situation in which:
    A relative or close friend has a financial interest in, or works for, a Dow customer, supplier, distributor or agent if we are in a position to affect Dow’s business with them.
    An immediate family member is employed by a competitor of Dow.
    We are put in a position where we directly or indirectly hire, supervise or otherwise have authority over a relative or romantic partner.
Gifts and Entertainment
Gifts and entertainment are often used to strengthen business relationships, but we should not accept or offer them if doing so could affect, or appear to affect, impartial decision-making.
Before offering gifts or entertainment to customers or others outside the Company, we should understand the recipient’s rules about accepting gifts and entertainment.
We do not offer or accept gifts or entertainment that could cause embarrassment to the Company, could be construed as a bribe or kickback, or are in exchange for preferential treatment in any business dealing.
Guidance Specific to Gifts:
    We never offer or accept gifts in cash or a cash equivalent, such as a gift card.
    We do not offer or accept a gift that is of more than modest value by local standards, consistent with local custom.
    We may accept gifts or discounts offered to a large group of employees as part of an agreement between the Company and a customer, supplier, distributor or agent.
Guidance Specific to Entertainment:
    We do not offer or accept entertainment unless it is consistent with customary business practice. For example, occasional business meals or attendance at a local theater or sporting event with a customer or a supplier are generally acceptable.
    We do not offer or accept entertainment that is sexually oriented or is otherwise indecent or inconsistent with our Value of Respect for People.
Dow Keyword: TER Policy
If you have additional questions, contact your supervisor, an attorney in the Legal Department or the Office of Ethics and Compliance.
Government Officials
Specific laws apply to interactions with government officials, including employees of government-owned or government- controlled companies. Refer to the Bribery and Corruption section of the Code for specific guidance on gifts and entertainment offered to government officials.
Gifts or entertainment should never influence, or appear to influence, our ability to make impartial business decisions in the best interests of Dow.
The integrity of our business and financial records is everyone’s responsibility, not just that of finance personnel. Accurate records reflect on our reputation and ensure that we meet legal requirements.
 Business and Financial Records
Business and financial records are essential to Dow’s success. The integrity and accuracy of these records help internal decision-making and are the basis of our reporting to shareholders, investors, creditors, government agencies and other stakeholders.
We must:
    Keep and present all Company records and reports in accordance with the law. These records include accounting records as well as any other electronic or written records, such as expense reports, time sheets, medical claim forms, personnel reviews and the wide variety of analytical, engineering and technical reports.
    Establish and maintain a system of strong and effective internal controls.
    Ensure that all Company records accurately and fairly reflect the underlying transaction.
    Never falsify any document.
    Record all financial transactions in the proper account, department and accounting period.
    Ensure that all actions and commitments are in accordance with Dow’s Authorization Policy and Delegation of Authority.
    Validate that all public communications, including reports to government authorities, are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable.
    Raise any concerns about the accuracy of Dow records with finance management or through another appropriate channel, such as the Dow EthicsLine.
Dow Keyword: Internal Control
Use and Protection of Company Resources and Information
We all have an obligation to protect Dow resources and use them properly.
Dow resources are intended for business use. In certain situations, personal use may be acceptable on a limited basis as long as we follow Dow’s policies and do not generate additional costs or offend co-workers.
As employees we are expected to:
    Use Company funds legally and responsibly.
    Safeguard Dow resources from theft, waste and carelessness.
    Not use Company funds or other resources to support an outside business or unauthorized activity.
Examples of Company resources include:
    Company funds, credit cards and other accounts
    Computers, electronic networks and other office equipment
    Telephone and mobile communications devices
    Internet access and e-mail
    Supplies
    Tickets to sporting and entertainment events
    Company proprietary information
Intellectual Property
Our continued success and future growth depend upon innovative products and solutions. To achieve a sustained competitive advantage for Dow businesses, we must protect our intellectual property against theft, misuse and loss.
With the support of the Legal Department, we all must take appropriate steps to secure intellectual property protection for Dow inventions, proprietary information, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrighted materials.
This includes:
    Using the Dow brand and trademarks, including the Dow Diamond, in accordance with Company guidelines.
    Reporting to the Legal Department any concerns about Dow intellectual property being infringed, misused or misappropriated.
    Respecting the trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, patent rights and proprietary information of third parties by avoiding unlawful use or infringement.
Information Technology
We rely heavily on computer systems and telecommunications networks. We must protect those systems from misuse.
We will:
    Follow the Dow Information Protection Policies and security and data protection requirements.
    Use and protect passwords for computer or network access.
    Store sensitive, proprietary or highly confidential information in protected files on secure servers provided by the Company.
    Safeguard all electronic devices at all times.
    Protect information security controls.
    Protect Company equipment or systems from pornography, gambling, and illegal or other offensive or inappropriate purposes.
Dow Keyword: Information Protection
As permitted by applicable law, Dow reserves the right to access, monitor, search, review, collect, transfer, restrict, block or otherwise control Dow information and any information stored on Dow equipment or equipment authorized by Dow.
For more information, see Dow’s Information Security policies.
Avoid discussing proprietary Company information, even with other employees, unless there is a legitimate business need to know.
 Proprietary Information and Records Management
We are all responsible for maintaining the integrity of Dow information and for using it appropriately. Unauthorized disclosure of Dow information could harm the Company or give an unfair advantage to others.
This means we:
    Classify documents according to Dow’s Information Handling Policy.
    Retain and discard Company records consistent with the Dow Records Management Policy and schedules.
    Follow all special record-keeping requirements issued with respect to internal investigations, litigation and government inquiries.
    Report loss of any Dow information in a timely manner.
    Observe all contractual obligations to safeguard others’ information, and do not disclose the proprietary information of others.
    Limit access to sensitive, proprietary or highly confidential information to those who are trained in the proper handling of such information.
    Do not discuss Dow information where the conversation may be overheard or compromised.
If it is necessary to share proprietary information outside the Company, we must first consult a Legal Department Attorney to ensure that adequate protections, such as a confidentiality agreement, are in place.
 Examples of Dow proprietary information include:
    Research and development (R&D) information
    Trade secrets
    Personnel records
    Business plans and proposals
    Capacity and production information
    Marketing or sales forecasts and strategies
    Client and customer lists
    Pricing lists or strategies
    Supplier data
We must obtain appropriate approval for external presentations that contain Dow information. Even after we leave Dow, we have an obligation to protect the Company’s proprietary information.
Dow Keywords: Records Management, Information Protection and Information Handling Policies
Dow as a Service Provider
When Dow is acting as a service provider, it has an obligation to protect the confidential information of its customers. This “Customer- Confidential Information” should be shared only with authorized Dow representatives, as designated in the controlling agreements.
Please seek guidance before you disclose any Customer-Confidential Information.
Data Privacy
Consistent with Dow’s Value of Respect for People, we respect the privacy of individuals and protect their personal data.
    We handle personal data responsibly and in accordance with the Dow Data Protection/Privacy Policy, any contractual obligations and local laws.
    We use personal data only for legitimate business purposes.
    We are open and transparent about the purposes for which we use personal data.
    We protect personal data from unauthorized disclosure.
    We limit disclosure of sensitive personal data to those who are under professional obligations of confidentiality and who are trained in the proper handling of this kind of information.
Examples of “personal data” include: address, age, employment, and educational and training information. Some examples   of “sensitive personal data” include: medical information, financial account numbers, Social Security numbers, race, religion, sexual orientation, criminal convictions and political affiliations.
Dow Keyword: Data Protection
Inside Information and Trading
Many of us are exposed to information about Dow—or about companies that Dow does business with—that may not be known to the public. This nonpublic information may, among other things, relate to business or manufacturing plans, new products or processes, mergers or acquisitions, serious business risks, sales, negotiations or other financial information.
    We do not trade in Dow securities, or those of any other company, using material nonpublic information gained through our work at Dow. Nor do we disclose this kind of information to others so that they may trade. Insider trading is illegal.
    Material nonpublic information is any information that could affect a reasonable investor’s decision to buy, sell or hold the securities of a company.
Insider trading rules are complex. When in doubt, consult the Office of the Corporate Secretary or a Legal Department Attorney.
 We may not use material nonpublic information about Dow, our customers or our suppliers for personal gain.
 Bribery and Corruption
We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical and legal standards in our relationships around the world. This includes our relationships with governments and government officials as well as with other businesses. We do not participate in bribery or corruption in any form.
    Interactions with government officials are subject to complex legal rules. The law establishes severe penalties for bribery and corruption, including large fines and imprisonment. Even simple acts like providing gifts to a government official can raise suspicions of corruption.
    To avoid even the appearance of improper conduct, we must obtain approval from a Legal Department Attorney before giving anything of value (including gifts, meals, entertainment, and business or employment opportunities) to a government official.
    Prior approval is not required where a payment is necessary to ensure safety or safe passage, but we should notify a Legal Department Attorney of the payment as soon as possible after the fact.
    We are equally vigilant to avoid bribery and corruption in transactions with other businesses and private parties.
We do not give anything of value to anyone to obtain any improper business advantage.
 Who are government officials?
    Employees of any government or government-controlled entity anywhere in the world, including low-level administrative officials
    Political parties and party officials
    Candidates for political office
    Employees of public organizations, such as the United Nations
    Employees of state-owned enterprises
When in doubt, contact an attorney in the Legal Department or the Office of Ethics and Compliance.
No Bribes
A bribe is giving or offering something of value to someone to improperly influence a decision.
We must not offer, promise or give anything of value to a government official, or to anyone else, in order to gain a business advantage. Nor may we accept bribes from others.
Examples of bribes include paying a government official to:
    Award a contract to the Company.
    Obtain advantageous tax or customs treatment.
    Obtain permits or regulatory approvals.
    Bypass or break laws or regulations applicable to the Company.
Bribery also includes kickbacks—the giving or receiving of personal payments to influence the awarding of a contract or other business transaction.
We must not use a third party—such as a subcontractor, consultant or agent—to pay a bribe. The Company and individual employees may be liable if a third party pays   a bribe on our behalf, even if we did not direct the payment. We must take care when selecting agents and consultants to ensure that there is no indication that they might pay a bribe.
Dow Keyword: Anti-Bribery
 Competition
Our responsibility to conduct business ethically extends to our relationships with customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors and regulators. This means competing within appropriate legal boundaries and on the basis of price, quality and service.
Antitrust and Fair Trade
    We win business ethically and obey all antitrust and trade laws, which demand free and fair competition.
    We do not have discussions or reach agreements with competitors or others that may restrict open competition. This includes conversations with competitors about:
-   Prices or credit terms.
-   Submission of bids or offers.
-   Allocation of markets or customers, or division of territories.
-   Restrictions on production or distribution.
-   Boycotts of suppliers or customers.
    We do not engage in any unfair, misleading or deceptive trade practices.
    We advertise, promote and label our products and services in a factual, honest and informative way.
Gathering Competitive Information
Information about our competitors enables us to better understand market demands and improve our products and services, but we must always gather competitive data legally and ethically.
To obtain competitive intelligence, we will use publicly available information, including published articles, market analyses and purchased reports.
    This means we will not seek a competitor’s confidential information, or accept anyone else’s confidential information, without their consent.
    We will never use illegal or unethical means (e.g., theft, bribery, misrepresentation or espionage) to obtain competitive information.
    We will comply with all applicable laws when gathering competitive information.
Dow Keyword: BIS
Antitrust and Competition Laws Are Serious  Business
Antitrust offenses do not have to involve anything in writing. Even the appearance of an agreement with a competitor may bring serious consequences. Violations of antitrust laws expose the Company and individual employees to substantial civil and criminal penalties and lawsuits. If an issue arises concerning antitrust compliance, we should immediately speak to our supervisor, a Legal Department Attorney, or the Office of Ethics and Compliance.
Always respect the confidential information of others, and never engage in misrepresentation or any other illegal or unethical means of gathering competitive information.
Trade Controls
We conduct business on an international scale in a world that can be dangerous. To prevent terrorism, halt the proliferation of weapons and fight narcotics trafficking and other crimes, various governments have established trade controls that restrict certain business transactions and the movement of certain goods across national borders.
    We must abide by all trade controls applicable to our business.
    Trade control laws can restrict:
-   Export of certain goods, services and technology.
-   Business dealings (including import, export and investments) with certain countries, entities and individuals.
-   Travel to certain countries.
-   Exchange of information.
    We must follow U.S. export controls, trade restrictions, economic sanctions and anti-boycott laws everywhere in the world, as well as local trade controls wherever we do business.
The laws in this area are complex and subject to frequent change. The penalties for violating trade control laws can be severe. Consult the International Trade Organization (ITO), your regional ITO professional or a Legal Department Attorney before engaging in any transaction that may involve products subject to export controls, a sanctioned country or a prohibited party.
Dow Keyword: ITO
C i t i z e n s h i p
At Dow, we conduct our business with the recognition that we all live together on a planet with limited resources. Making the most of the resources we have and accelerating progress on efficient and renewable solutions are not only a strategic imperative, they are ingrained in our Values. So everything we do and how we do it matters.
Setting the Standard for Sustainability
We are all part of a complex system that requires balance, innovation and an uncompromising focus on protecting our planet. Our commitment to each other and to environmental stewardship requires us to:
    Comply at all times with environmental laws and Dow policies applicable to our area of business.
    Ensure that our products, operations and behaviors adhere at all times to applicable governmental standards, Dow environmental standards and approved compliance plans.
The laws are complex, are subject to frequent changes and vary from country to country. If you have any questions or concerns, you should seek advice from a Legal Department Attorney or an EH&S subject matter expert to clarify how these laws apply to your job.
Dow Keyword: Sustainability
Corporate Citizenship
We are committed to making positive change through community partnerships, charitable giving and volunteerism.
Through our science, expertise, volunteerism and donations, we are taking bold steps to help solve some of the world’s most challenging problems. Through relationships with our neighbors and partners, we are building better, stronger, more
sustainable communities in the places where we do business. Our sustainability goals and corporate citizenship initiatives are a source of pride for employees.
    We engage in active dialogue with organizations representing the communities where we do business.
    We support initiatives that address the goals and needs of the community and seek to leverage our capabilities to support those communities.
Dow Keyword: Corporate Citizenship
We strive to reduce waste and emissions, and we promote resource conservation at every stage of the life cycle of our products.
The United Nations Global Compact
As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to exhibiting and promoting appropriate conduct. The UNGC is a United Nations initiative through which businesses commit to ten universally accepted principles in
the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The principles are simple but powerful statements of social, environmental and business responsibility; they form the ethical
framework against which we can plan, measure and communicate our performance.
 Charitable Activities and Volunteerism
Through the Corporate Contributions Committee and The Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Dow participates in a variety of charitable endeavors around the world. That participation ranges from financial contributions to donations of Dow products, services and other resources.
We will:
    Support our personal community activities on our own time, with our own resources and not as a representative of Dow.
    Obtain authorization for any donation to any charity in Dow’s name.
We will not:
    Represent Dow in any public process or forum unless specifically requested to do so by management.
    Obtain prior reimbursement from Dow for personal expenses or donations to charitable activities.
Dow Keyword: Contributions
Dow has business rules governing political contributions, where they are allowed by law. Consult with Government Affairs when considering any political contribution on behalf of the Company or in connection with the conduct of Dow business.
In community activities, we are free to present our personal views, but we must be clear that we are participating on our own behalf.
Political Activities and Contributions
Dow encourages participation in local, national and international political processes.
    If we express personal views in a public forum (such as a letter to the newspaper), we must not use Company letterhead or Company e-mail, or refer to our business address or title.
    We always comply with all relevant laws regulating Dow’s participation in political affairs, including political contributions.
Communications with the Public
We strive to communicate with the public in an accurate and consistent way. To be sure that we comply with the law and protect our interests, only those who are specifically designated to do so should represent the Company to the public or media.
    If we receive an inquiry from an outside contact about a Company matter, we should direct the inquiry to our local Public Affairs representative.
Social Media
Social networks and other forms of social media are becoming part of the business mainstream. In general, the rules that apply to new communication tools are consistent with traditional communication rules. Specifically,
Do:
    Clearly distinguish between authorized business communication and personal communication. If you give a personal opinion on public issues, do not create the impression that you represent Dow or are expressing the views of Dow.
    Respect trademark, copyright, fair use, trade secret and financial disclosure laws and Company guidelines.
    Adhere to Dow’s Values in all authorized business communications. Don’t:
    Speak on behalf of Dow unless you are a designated spokesperson and have permission to do so.
    Disclose any confidential information belonging to Dow, its employees, customers, suppliers or other business partners.
    Refer to Dow customers, suppliers or business partners without their approval.
    Endorse Dow products or services without prior approval.
    Divulge personal data about others, especially personal data obtained as part of your Dow relationships.
Dow Keyword: Social Media Policy
Dragon Oil
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: UAE
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

DRAGON OIL CODE OF CONDUCT AND BUSINESS ETHICS (“the Code”)
ii. GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF
DRAGON OIL
Dragon Oil expects each Dragon Oil Director, ofﬁcer, employee and consultant (each a “Participant”) to read the Code and to take responsibility for ensuring that the operation of the Code is effective. All Participants are expected to be conscious and recognise situations and circumstances which could result in a breach of the Code. The general principles and the procedures for reporting any suspected, alleged or actual wrongdoing are set out in the Whistleblowing Policy.
Dragon Oil observes both the letter and the spirit of the laws of every country where it conducts business. In any situation not governed by law, Dragon Oil’s affairs should be conducted in accordance with the highest ethical standards of business practice.  Dragon Oil expects that every Participant will do the same.
Dragon Oil will treat its employees with dignity and respect, and will strive to develop the employee’s skills and career through the effective use of recruitment and training courses.
Dragon Oil will act positively to prevent injury, ill health, damage and loss arising from its operations as well as complying with all regulatory requirements pertaining to health and safety.
Dragon Oil will ensure through this Code and through other means of communication that the required standards, rules and regulations are known by all Participants.
Dragon Oil requires the highest standards of performance and integrity from its employees and is committed to the application of equally high standards in all its corporate dealings with Participants, governments, business partners, contractors and the general public.
iii.    GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF
DRAGON OIL'S PARTICIPANTS
Each Participant is required to:-
    understand this Code and have a general understanding of the law applicable in the jurisdiction in which they work;
    comply with the Code, all other Dragon Oil policies and the law applicable in the jurisdiction in which they work;
    communicate actual and suspected violations of the Code, other Dragon Oil policies and the law; and
    ensure that he or she is behaving in the correct manner by doing the right thing at all times.
iv. DRAGON OIL
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
All Participants are required to operate within the authority limits delegated to them. The Participants derive their authorities from the Dragon Oil Control Framework including the Matters Reserved for the Board of Directors and the Financial Authorities Manual. As part of their overall responsibilities, the Participants are required to read, understand and implement
Dragon Oil’s policies and procedures, including but
not limited to, the Contracts and Purchasing Policy, financial policies and procedures and all operational procedures.
If there is any provision of this Code the relevant Participant requires clariﬁcation on he or she should contact the Legal Department or the Company Secretary for guidance and direction.
v.  SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR PARTICIPANTS
The following are standards for all Participants in all Dragon Oil companies worldwide.
1. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Each Participant has a prime responsibility to the Company and is expected to avoid any activity which might interfere with that responsibility. Participants  must not engage in activities or transactions which may give rise or which may be seen to be giving rise, to conﬂict between their personal interest and the best interests of the Company. Conﬂicts of interest also arise in circumstances when there is an opportunity for personal gain and where there is doubt as to whether an employee is able to act in an objective manner.
Each Participant must avoid doing anything that may compromise or appear to compromise his or her judgment or that places or appears to place the Participant’s personal interests and the interests of Dragon Oil in conﬂict. No consultant, contractor, other business partner, joint interest owners, vendors, suppliers, customers or competitors (each a “Business Partner”) may make any offer which in any way may give rise to a breach of these guidelines; any such breach may result in termination of any contract and the recovery by Dragon Oil of any loss by way of damages from the Business Partner.
1.  Dragon Oil purchases equipment, materials and services for all aspects of its operations. Conﬂicts of interest can arise where an employee holds an interest in Dragon Oil’s Business Partner. A Participant must formally disclose in writing any ﬁnancial interest in any Business Partner to Dragon Oil, whether held directly or indirectly (such as an interest held by immediate family members). Where a ﬁnancial interest has been disclosed, the relevant Participant must not be involved
in any communications with the relevant Business Partner or exert any inﬂuence in the award of any contract.
2.  Company policy requires that Participants do not participate in any activity which competes, directly or indirectly, with the business of Dragon Oil or interferes with his or her duties and responsibilities to Dragon Oil. Conﬂicts of interest can arise where a Participant engages in outside work for any of Dragon Oil’s Business Partners.
3.  From time to time, a Participant may be presented with gifts from other business organisations. Conﬂicts of interest can arise where an employee receives any personal ﬁnancial beneﬁt or gift from any of Dragon Oil’s Business Partners. Accepting gifts or entertainment from such entities or individuals could be perceived to inﬂuence decisions or create a sense of obligation.  Any such gift which is offered, or possibly offered, in the expectation of, or to solicit, favourable consideration of any nature must be refused and the fact of its having been offered reported immediately to Dragon Oil management. Gifts of a minor nature may be accepted providing no possible ulterior motive can be attributed to them. Management should be consulted in any case of doubt.
4.  There is no objection in principle to the employment of relatives but inappropriate relationships that
compromise internal control must be avoided. To that end, any application from a relation or friend of a Participant will only be considered on merit and will go through the proper interview and selection procedure. The candidate, if successful at interview will not report directly to the relevant Participant.
5.  Participants must not sell, lease or buy services or equipment from or to Dragon Oil except when declared and approved by Dragon Oil’s management.
6.  Participants are not permitted to conduct business on their own account during working hours, on Dragon Oil premises or to use Dragon Oil facilities for that purpose, whether during working hours or otherwise.
2. DEALING IN SECURITIES AND INSIDER INFORMATION
    Any information marked “conﬁdential”.
The regulations of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, the Irish Stock Exchange and the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which Dragon Oil operates prohibit any person from buying or selling securities, including shares, options and traded options, if he or she is in possession of unpublished price sensitive information about Dragon Oil.
Every Participant must adhere to these requirements:
    Participants must not buy or sell any Dragon Oil securities if the Participant has unpublished price sensitive information about Dragon Oil.
    Participants may not engage in transactions in the
securities of another company when the Participant
has unpublished price sensitive information of the company that was obtained through the Participant’s relationship with Dragon Oil.
    Participants must not share conﬁdential Dragon Oil information with anyone either inside or outside Dragon Oil unless that person is authorized and the recipient of the information is covered by equivalent conﬁdentiality obligations.
    Participants must not undertake dealings of a short-term, speculative nature in Dragon Oil’s securities, such as exchange-traded options or short-sales.
All inquiries for information from any securities industry professional (such as a broker or analyst), any Dragon Oil shareholder or the press should be directed to the Investor Relations Department, CEO, Company Secretary
or the Director of Finance.
In addition, Participants are subject to the Model Code, which restricts dealing at times in the year preceding the announcement of the Company’s ﬁnancial results. The period of restriction is two months before the publication of interim or ﬁnal results. Participants who wish to trade in Dragon Oil securities during such periods must seek the CEO’s and the Company Secretary’s permissions in writing before they do so.
If a Participant intentionally releases misleading information about the Company to a third party, they will be subject to disciplinary action by the Company which may include dismissal.
3.  CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION
Conﬁdential information is of considerable value to Dragon Oil and as such, all Participants are required to sign a Conﬁdentiality Agreement. This requires that the Participant keeps trade secrets and information concerning the business or affairs of the Company conﬁdential and not to use or disclose such information to any unauthorised person either in or outside Dragon Oil except in the proper execution of his or her duties. All such information is the property of Dragon Oil and must be returned to Dragon Oil when the Participant’s relationship with Dragon Oil ends, along with any equipment belonging to Dragon Oil.
Information obtained during a Participant’s relationship with Dragon Oil may not be used for any
purpose other than advancing the Dragon Oil’s interest. Records containing information about Participants and/or Business Partners must be kept conﬁdential. Access to such records is limited to those Participants with a speciﬁc need to use the information in the performance of their duties.
All inventions, patent rights, copyright, design rights, trademarks and other intellectual property (together referred to as “Intellectual Property”) invented, devised or created by a Participant in the course of his or her employment will be the property of Dragon Oil (unless otherwise agreed by Dragon Oil). As such, the Participant may only use such information  in the proper execution of his or her duties.
4.  COMPANY AND PERSONAL PROPERTY
A Participant must not take or use Dragon Oil property or the property of another Participant or a Business Partner without permission; nor must the Participant use Dragon Oil property for private purposes without management permission.
Participants also have an obligation to protect and preserve and not to abuse Dragon Oil’s property
and assets. This includes, among other things, Dragon Oil’s logo, computer systems, telephone systems, email, facilities, vehicles, materials and supplies. Misuse of Dragon Oil property includes the removal of Dragon Oil stationary for home use, the use of Dragon Oil vehicles without permission or the use of Dragon Oil’s premises for personal gain or unauthorised gatherings.
6. INDUCEMENT PAYMENTS
Dragon Oil will not condone, excuse or authorise any payments by a Participant to a third party or any receipt by a Participant of a payment from a third party which is  in the nature of a kickback for obtaining any business, employment, a bribe or otherwise conferring a special favour on the Participant or Dragon Oil. More particularly, Participants are expressly prohibited from receiving any bribes, payoffs or kickbacks of any monetary or non-monetary value that could result in a Business Partner of Dragon Oil obtaining an unfair advantage in any way, including prior to, during or after completion of the tendering process.
Also, offering gifts and entertainment can raise similar issues. Gifts or payments of any nature to any government ofﬁcial, political party or candidate for public ofﬁce to induce them to perform their duties are speciﬁcally and strictly prohibited. Such a payment may be considered  to be a kickback, bribe or payoff and may be in violation of the law and could result in the imposition of ﬁnes, imprisonment or both. The offering of gifts of a minor nature will not be in breach of the Code providing no possible ulterior motive can be attributed to them.
Management should be considered in any case of doubt.
To ensure the highest levels of integrity and objectivity in dealing with Dragon Oil’s Business Partners and to avoid the appearance of impropriety, Participants should not accept or offer any gift or entertainment unless it:
1.  is permitted under Dragon Oil’s policy on business  entertainment;
2.  is unsolicited and offered infrequently;
3.  does not involve special treatment, such as free services, special discounts, or other special favours to the Business Partner;
4.  is reasonable in its value and scope;
5.  is customary and part of the Participant’s normal business practices to accept or offer such item;
6.  does not impose or create the appearance of imposing a sense of obligation on either the giver or the recipient; and
7.  would not create the appearance that the Business Partner’s business judgment could be inﬂuenced.
8.  AGREEMENTS WITH BUSINESS PARTNERS
Dragon Oil has a Contracts and Purchasing Policy which all Participants are required to comply with. Among other things, it is Dragon Oil’s policy that agreements with Dragon Oil’s Business Partners should state clearly the services to be performed for Dragon Oil, the amount to be paid and all other relevant terms and conditions. All payments and transactions must bear a reasonable relationship to the value of the services rendered. All payments and transactions must
be supported by documentary evidence. Further details in
this regard are set out in the Contracts and Purchasing Policy.
The Contracts and Purchasing Policy also sets out the employees who are authorised to negotiate or discuss commercial matters with existing or potential Business Partners. Any failure to comply with the Contracts and Purchasing Policy will be dealt with in accordance with disciplinary procedures set out in Dragon Oil’s HR policies and procedures.
10. HEALTH AND SAFETY
Every Participant must take reasonable care for the health and safety of himself or herself and others who may be affected by his or her acts or omissions at work. Participants must comply with all Dragon Oil policies and procedures
relating to health, safety and the environment. If a Participant takes any action which risks the health or safety of a Dragon Oil employee or a member of the public they may be subject to disciplinary action.
12. HARASSMENT
Dragon Oil is committed to a healthy, harassment-free work environment for all our employees. Harassment occurs when an employee is subjected to unwelcome verbal or physical conduct because of their position in the Company, race, religious beliefs, skin colour, country of origin, gender, mental or physical disability, ancestry, marital status, family status or source of income.
Examples of harassment which will not be tolerated by Dragon Oil are verbal or physical abuse, threats, derogatory remarks, jokes, innuendo or taunts about any person’s appearance, religious beliefs, colour, place of origin, mental or physical disabilities, ancestry, marital status, family status, source of income or gender. Dragon Oil also will not tolerate the display of pornographic, racist or offensive signs or images or practical jokes (whether indirect or explicit) that result in awkwardness or embarrassment.
Discrimination on the grounds of gender, unwanted sexual advances, unwanted requests for sexual favours, and other unwanted verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitutes sexual harassment when:
    submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term of, or condition of, an individual’s employment; or
    submission to, or rejection of, such conduct by an individual affects that individual’s employment.
Sexual harassment can include such things as pinching, patting, rubbing or leering, “dirty” jokes, pictures or pornographic materials, innuendoes, requests or demands of a sexual nature. The behaviour need not be intentional in order to be considered sexual harassment.
All harassment is offensive and in many cases it intimidates others. Dragon Oil will not tolerate harassment of any kind and any such behaviour by a Participant will result in disciplinary action and may constitute a violation of the law and may result in Dragon Oil reporting the incident to the relevant authorities.
Participants are expected to act and dress appropriately, taking into account the customs and culture of the relevant country. In some circumstances inappropriate dress or behaviour can be considered offensive to others and Participants are expected to respect the customs and culture of the country in which they undertake operations.
13. CONTRIBUTIONS TO EXTERNAL ORGANISATIONS
A Participant may contribute lectures and articles to technical institutions and journals as long as he or she does so in accordance with his or her conﬁdentiality obligations and does not place himself or herself in a situation where there might be a conﬂict between his or her interests and the best interests of Dragon Oil. Any such publications must be approved by Management prior to publication. Subject to these conditions and provided that the work is undertaken in his or her personal time, a Participant may retain any payments for external activities which, through the knowledge and experience acquired in Dragon Oil’s service, he or she is able to command a fee. Where such work is authorised to be undertaken partly in
Dragon Oil’s working time, it is left to management’s discretion whether or not the Participant should retain any payments received.
14. EMAIL, INTERNET AND COMPUTERS
Every Participant must take reasonable care for his or her use of Dragon Oil’s Information Technology (IT) facilities and software and speciﬁcally must comply with all Dragon Oil policies and procedures relating to IT, email and the Internet.
Dragon Oil provides its employees with the use of and access to (among other things) computer
 systems, Dragon Oil’s e-mail system, telephones, voice mail, fax machines, on-line services, Internet. These services are owned by Dragon Oil and not by employees and any use of these systems for personal reasons in a way that is abusive, excessive or unauthorised is against Dragon Oil policy.

Access to the internet is possible from all workstations. However, usage restrictions during ofﬁce hours do apply at the user level. During normal working hours this service should only be used for operational reasons on behalf of the Company.
Users should respect their colleagues and not distribute, access or retrieve any material that could be deemed offensive to other users.
The IT Department has a separate policy in relation to the use of Dragon Oil’s IT services which is provided to employees separately. Any abuse of the IT policies will be dealt with in accordance with disciplinary procedures set out in Dragon Oil’s HR policies and procedures.
vi. REPORTING OF VIOLATIONS AND PROTECTION FROM RETALIATION
(“WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY”)
Any violation of this Code, the Dragon Oil Control Framework, the Contracts and Purchasing Policy, Health, Safety and Environment policies and procedures, ﬁnancial and internal controls and other policies in place within the Group causes harm to the Group, to fellow Participants and ultimately to the investors. Violations may result in physical injuries, the impairment of corporate assets, monetary losses, breaches of laws, penalties and, in some cases, violations may result in irreparable harm to the reputation of Dragon Oil. For these reasons, Participants are obliged to report promptly any problems or any actual or suspected violations of any of the Group’s internal controls or policies.
The decision to report a problem or violation is not always easy. Nonetheless, Dragon Oil encourages Participants to seek assistance, irrespective of the nature of the problem
or how insigniﬁcant the problem may appear. This also aids transparency of our procedures. The Group wants to ensure that Participants seeking advice will receive prompt guidance before the fact, i.e. prior to engaging in conduct that may be a violation.
No Participant shall suffer retaliation in any form for reporting, in good faith, suspected violations of this Code.
Disciplinary action will be taken against anyone who retaliates directly or indirectly against any employee who reports actual or suspected violations. The Whistleblower Policy applies even in those circumstances where the allegation appears ultimately groundless, provided that it was made in good faith. Any Participant who knowingly reports false or misleading information will, however, be subject to disciplinary action.
Dragon Oil recognises that Participants have concerns about confidentiality and so respects the need for anonymity in certain instances. When an employee so wishes, his or her identity will remain conﬁdential.
However, please remember that anonymity will make it more difﬁcult to conduct investigations or solve problems. The Group will make every effort to safeguard the conﬁdentiality of statements and other information reported by Participants, subject only to legal requirements or a court order.

The appropriate Dragon Oil personnel should be sought for advice whenever there are any questions or concerns about compliance with an internal control or policy, applicable laws, or in those instances when a suspected violation of the Code needs to be reported, or there is a question as to the “right thing” to do under any given circumstances.
It is preferable that Participants initially report any violations of the Code or other Dragon Oil policies and procedures  to their immediate supervisor. If any Participant is uncomfortable discussing the particular issue with his or her supervisor, or the supervisor does not answer the question or problem to the satisfaction of the Participant or the supervisor does not know the answer, the Participant should contact Dragon Oil’s Legal Department, the Finance Department, the HR Department or Dragon Oil’s Chief Executive Ofﬁcer to report any such violations.
If a Participant does not feel comfortable reporting the violation of any Dragon Oil personnel, the Participant can call the Dragon Oil Hotline. Full details of the Dragon Oil Hotline are set out on the inside back cover of this Code.
DuPont
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

DuPont Code of Conduct Ensuring a Sustainable Future Our Core Values in Action
January 2015
Employee Responsibilities
As DuPont employees, we are entrusted with ensuring that the company’s operations reflect responsible business practices.
Overall Responsibilities
To meet this responsibility, each employee must:
    Demonstrate the DuPont core values in everyday business activities.
    Become familiar with this Code of Conduct and company policies and procedures.
    Comply with the laws, regulations, and company policies in the businesses and countries in which the employee works. If any of these standards appear to conflict, discuss the matter with
Legal. Never try to conceal a person’s failure to comply with a law, regulation, company policy or procedure.
    Never ask or allow another party, such as an outside agent, representative, supplier, or toll manufacturer to perform an action that a DuPont employee is not permitted to do.
    Raise questions or concerns about the company’s business practices with management or others listed in Getting Assistance
& Raising Concerns on page 35.
    Report suspected violations of the law, this Code of Conduct, or other company policies and procedures, as outlined in Getting Assistance & Raising Concerns on page 35, unless following that process conflicts with local laws.
    Cooperate and provide complete and accurate information related to investigations of misconduct.
Topic-Specifi  Responsibilities
Employees should comply with applicable laws, regulations, and company policies. Specific areas of compliance include the following:
    Gifts & Entertainment Exchange gifts and entertainment only in rare situations, and only when doing so is not likely to be perceived as an improper attempt to influence the participating party’s business decision.
    Bribes & Kickbacks Never, directly or through a third party,  offer, provide, or accept payments or other benefits that might be perceived as improper or illegal.
    Payments for Products & Services Ensure that company payments to outside parties are always appropriate in value and not misunderstood as being improper.
    Doing Business Across Borders Know local rules regarding exporting and importing products and services, and be aware of
DuPont Code of Conduct
antiboycott requirements in countries where products, technology, or services are being traded.
    Customer, Consumer, Supplier, or other Third Party Privacy Safeguard DuPont customers’, consumers’, suppliers’, or other third parties’ privacy by carefully guarding their information and disclosing it only to others authorized to receive it.
    Conflicts of Interest Disclose to management any personal interests that could possibly pose a conflict with the company, including, but not limited to: outside employment; other activities and financial interests; handling and sharing inside information; business opportunities belonging to the company; and conflicts of interest involving family members and other personal relationships. Ensure that personal political contribu- tions and activities do not involve company funds or other assets.
    Company Assets Always obtain, use, share, or dispose of company property with DuPont shareholders’ interests in mind, and in a way that demonstrates employees are good stewards of company assets. These assets include, but are not limited to: computer and communications systems; non-public information; intellectual property (e.g., patents or inventions, brands, trademarks, and copyrights); and records and expense requests. Return all company property, including written information, if departing the company.
    Company Funds Use company financial assets only for authorized purposes. Never seek reimbursement for non-business
expenses or duplicate reimbursements. Ensure that travel expense reports reflect business activity only and are properly approved.
    Company “Internal Only” Information Always protect this information from unauthorized disclosure to non-company individuals.
    Company Time Do not use company time to work for an outside business or your own personal interests or businesses.
    Embezzlement, Theft, or Extortion Never take or divert property or other assets belonging to the company, or to another person or company, through theft, fraud, deception, or extortion.
    Records & Reporting Accurately create and properly maintain company records, providing only data known to be accurate. Never make or allow a misstatement in a company record. Never cover up or attempt to hide a mistake in a company record.
    Competition Practices Use only proper means of competing with other companies and in developing and maintaining rela- tionships with customers and suppliers.
    Gathering Competitive Information Gather information about DuPont competitors only by using proper means, and never
by theft or misrepresentation, or by using another person to improperly gather this information.
    Government Relations If authorized to work with government officials, make certain that relationships with government officials and employees follow the law and meet the requirements imposed by the local government and that all registration and reporting requirements are met. Ensure that actions cannot be perceived as improper or as presenting a government official with a conflict of interest.
    Environmental Protection & Sustainability In business activities, safeguard the environment by minimizing pollution, reducing waste, and following company policies and programs regarding sustainability.
    Product Stewardship Demonstrate the company’s commitment to serving as good stewards of the products, services, and technologies the company provides to DuPont customers.
    Human Rights Abide by the company’s human rights policy and ensure that company operations appropriately address human rights concerns.
    Contacts with Outside Parties Refer contacts from outside individuals to the correct DuPont staff, as appropriate.
    Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Make staffing decisions on abilities, not on characteristics that are improper to consider.
    Respect for People Treat others with respect and never engage in any behavior that could be perceived as harassing, hostile, or disrespectful.
    Privacy & Personal Information Show respect for others’ personal information and property, just as one would expect in return.
    Safety & Health Always take precautions to safeguard safety and health.
Manager Responsibilities
Managers have a profound effect on how their employees conduct business. Employees typically learn from their managers whether business practices are considered proper or improper. Therefore, each manager has additional responsibilities to:
    Set high standards in personal actions.
    Communicate regularly and clearly about responsible business practices and their alignment with the DuPont core values.
    Treat all employees fairly. Also, help employees understand
that being fair does not always mean treating each employee exactly the same.
    Communicate to employees the manager’s availability to assist them with ethics and compliance questions, or reports of possible misconduct, without fear of retaliation.
    Appropriately address an employee report of suspected misconduct.
    When an employee raises a question or concern that may be difficult for the manager to resolve, seek assistance from Getting Assistance & Raising Concerns on page 35.
    Appropriately respond to employees’ conflict of interest situations to ensure business decisions are wholly in the company’s best interest.
These responsibilities are listed in this Code of Conduct so all employees will know the company’s expectations of managers.
Violations
Ethics violations cover a variety of employee actions relating to the responsibilities listed above and are investigated by Internal Audit. These violations include, but are not limited to:
    Misstatement of official company records
    Embezzlement
    Theft
    Conflicts of interest
    Bribery, extortion, or inappropriate gratuities
    Improper use of company funds
    Excessive personal business on company time
    Knowing non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations
    Concealment of non-compliance with a company procedure, standard or policy
    Unauthorized release of confidential information
    Providing false information in the course of an official company investigation
    Other

These classifications of violation types may be updated as necessary.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Providing Sustainable Solutions for Our Customers and Consumers
The company’s success depends on how well we meet the needs of the customers and consumers we serve. DuPont is committed to the marketplace’s expectations of responsible conduct. Our DuPont core values stress that how we interact with others is just as important as what we do for them. We
demonstrate sound business practices in all of our customer relationships to maintain our customers’ trust and their business over the long term.
At DuPont we act responsibly in how we exchange gifts, entertain and handle business payments, conduct business across borders, and safeguard customer and consumer privacy. We do this with a focus on how we treat our customers and meet their needs.
In This Section
Gifts, Entertainment & Payments Gifts & Entertainment
Bribes & Kickbacks
Payments for Products & Services Business Across Borders
Export Control Compliance Customs & Imports
Antiboycott / Economic Boycotts & Trade with Potentially Sensitive Countries
Customer, Consumer, Supplier, or other Third Party Privacy
Gifts & Entertainment
The company does not encourage giving or receiving gifts, even where the gift is otherwise perceived to be in the company’s interest. When business entertainment is appropriate, or in the rare event that a gift is given or received, employees should ensure that the gift or entertainment:
    Is consistent with customary regional business practices.
    Has a clear business purpose.
    Cannot be perceived as a bribe or improper payment.
    Is not offered to improperly influence a business relationship.
    Does not violate applicable laws or ethical standards.
    Would not embarrass the company or the employee if publicly disclosed.
    Has been approved by the Vice President or Corporate
Officer in the line of responsibility if it has a value that may be considered excessive, or equal to or greater than the DuPont Gifts and Entertainment policy’s “High Value Amount,” as determined by each country.
More stringent guidelines may apply within local organizations or specific functions and with regard to government procurements and interactions with government officials. Employees should check with their management for additional guidelines.
To prevent conflicts around gift giving, it is often helpful at the start of a business relationship to discuss what is not allowed.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Bribes & Kickbacks
Bribes and kickbacks are illegal in almost every country. Any offer of a payment or anything of value to influence a business decision or government action could be considered a bribe or kickback. An
employee must never, directly or through a third party, offer, request, accept, or indicate a willingness to accept such a payment. Use caution, as even some non-cash gifts could be perceived as bribes. Unofficial fees to government officials, known as “facilitating” payments, made to expedite “routine government actions” such as processing papers or issuing permits, are prohibited.
Payments for Products & Services
Sales-related commissions, rebates, discounts, credits, and allowances are customary business payments. Employees should avoid illegal or unethical payments, and must comply with applicable accounting, currency exchange controls, tax anti-bribery, and government procurement anti-kickback regulations.
Payments that the company makes or receives should be:
    Reasonable in value, relative to the goods or services provided and to industry norms.
    Competitively justified.
    Properly documented, such as in a negotiated agreement. The documentation should clearly define the nature and purpose of the transaction. (When an agreement is not practicable, the approving business or function should prepare and file a memorandum that explains the payment. Legal should review this memorandum.)
    Made by check, bank transfer, or credit note to the business entity listed on the original sales agreement or sales invoice, per payment terms as defined in the agreement.
    Payable to the business entity, not its individual officers, employees, or agents, or payable to another business entity.
    Prepared and sent only to the business, or its designated entity’s place of business or bank account, in the proper country as listed on the original sales agreement or sales invoices.
    Free of any falsification, misrepresentation, or deliberate overbilling in any document (including invoices, consular documents, letters of credit, etc.). This includes suppression or omission of documents or of information in documents, and the deliberate misdirection of documents.
    Charged to the business entity or product benefiting from the payment. The company should provide full visibility regarding any payments and should not charge the payment to a non-related account. Otherwise, this action could be perceived as trying to
hide the expense from proper scrutiny.
    In accordance with standard, written trade terms, including paid commissions, rebates, credits, discounts, or allowances.
The person approving each transaction is responsible for understanding the full transaction to ensure that it is appropriate to the situation and complies with company policy.
Generally, a payment does not require special review or a  payer’s written request if it is made in the same country in which the product or service is delivered. Exceptions to the above requirements should be rare.
Never make payments that may appear to violate accounting, tax, exchange control, or other laws and regulations. If unsure of a payment’s legality, or to request an exception to this policy, seek approval from Legal and the Controller.
DuPont Code of Conduct
Export Control Compliance
Employees need to understand and follow national and multinational laws and other rules for exporting products, services, and technologies from one country to another. Export rules not only pertain to transferring products between countries — they may also restrict the following:
    Using business knowledge outside of the employee’s country, such as when providing technical assistance to others.
    Transferring technical data to someone in another country, such as through the Internet, e-mail, conversations, meetings, or database access. This restriction applies to sharing information with other company employees, as well as non-employees.
    Transferring technology from within the U.S. to non-U.S. persons.
    Transporting company assets with certain technology, such as a computer an employee takes on a business trip to another country.
Some exports may require a government export license. In certain circumstances, export compliance laws may not allow companies or individuals to directly or indirectly deal with particular countries, companies, or individuals. These rules apply to transactions among DuPont, its affiliates, joint ventures, and subsidiaries, and between DuPont and other companies.
At times, export compliance laws in certain regions may conflict. To avoid problems, employees should consult Legal as early as possible about local laws on exporting products, services, and technology.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the
DuPont intranet.
DuPont Code of Conduct
Customs & Imports
Customs rules safeguard each country’s domestic industries, homeland security, and trading rights, while also preventing prohibited items from entering the country. These rules apply to transactions between DuPont and its affiliates, joint ventures, and subsidiaries, and between DuPont and outside companies. The rules require DuPont to determine the correct classification, value, and country of origin of all of its imports.
Employees must be able to demonstrate, with proper documentation, that DuPont exercised reasonable care to ensure that its imports comply with all applicable laws. This step requires that, at minimum, employees report complete, accurate, and detailed informa-
tion regarding every imported product, its places of manufacture, and its full cost. Virtually all countries in which DuPont operates have these
requirements.
  Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Antiboycott / Economic Boycotts & Trade with Potentially Sensitive Countries
Many countries have laws that require a company to either refuse or not refuse to do business with another country, its companies, or its citizens. For instance, U.S. laws generally prohibit U.S. companies and their subsidiaries from cooperating with international boycotts not sanctioned by the U.S. Government.
These laws can be confusing, especially when they conflict with one another. Employees involved in conducting business across borders should be familiar with the DuPont Export Compliance and Antiboycott policy. Among other expectations, this policy requires that employees report information requests they receive that could be used to boycott a country or company. Always contact Legal when you need to address a boycott or antiboycott issue.
In addition, DuPont has enacted a global Policy on Trade with Potentially Sensitive Countries. Its purpose is to ensure that DuPont is in compliance with all multinational laws regulating the trade and investment as well as the foreign policy considerations of the United States and other nations in which we operate.
The policy applies to all DuPont businesses, including controlled subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates worldwide and governs all proposed import and export transactions.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Employees who work with personal information about customers, consumers, suppliers, or other third parties must understand the laws applicable to the collection, transfer, and use of personal information. Depending on the type of
information, some countries impose significant restrictions on how companies must treat personal information. In addition, country laws, company policies, and industry standards, like the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, require security controls for the physical and electronic protection of personal information. Personal information is defined as information suf- ficient to identify an individual. Personal information can include a customer’s, consumer’s, supplier’s, or other third party’s name, date of birth, business or personal address, business or personal telephone number, credit card number, or national identification number. As a global company, DuPont must comply with all applicable privacy laws. The DuPont Global Information Privacy Policy (GIPP) summarizes our commitments regarding privacy protection.
When transferring personal information across country borders, the company may be required, by applicable law, to use data transfer agreements including model clauses, opt-in consent from the customer, consumer, supplier or third party, or a self- certification to the Safe Harbor Principles agreed upon by the EU, Switzerland and the U.S.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
In This Section
Conflicts of Interest
Outside Employment, Work, or Activities
Insider Trading Corporate Opportunities
Political Contributions or Activities Company Assets
Computers & Communications Systems
Non-Public Information Inventions
Brands, Trademarks & Copyrights Records & Reporting
Expense Reporting & Reimbursement Departing the Company
Conflicts of interest may involve:
    Outside work, employment, or other activities (see page 17).
    Use of inside information and insider trading (see page 17).
    Corporate opportunities (see page 18).
    Political activities or contributions (see page 18).
    An employee, or to the employee’s knowledge, his or her family member with a significant fi ancial interest in an outside enterprise which does or seeks to do business with, or is a competitor to, the company.
    An employee’s family member who receives personal benefits (such as from company business associates) because of the employee’s role with the company.
    Any other arrangement or circumstance, including family or other personal relationships, which could be perceived as dissuading the employee from acting in the best interests of the company.
It is against company policy for a manager to supervise a family member or to engage in a romantic relationship with a reporting employee. An employee who is likely to encounter this issue should discuss the matter with his or her supervisor or Human Resources.
Reviewing a potential conflict: Management will review whether an employee’s personal interest may influence, or appear to influence, the employee’s duty to make business decisions wholly in the company’s best interests. Considerations may include whether:
    The outside interest involves business or competes with the employee’s duties, function or site, or with company business.
    The employee’s responsibilities involve making or influencing business decisions in the area where the potential conflict may exist.
    Public disclosure of the outside interest could embarrass the company.
    The employee has access to company information that is potentially useful to the outside interest.
    The employee’s family member has an active, managerial, or decision-making role in the outside interest where a potential conflict exists.
Employees should disclose or raise any questions related to conflicts of interest with their manager, Corporate Compliance Officer, or Legal.
Outside Employment, Work, or Activities
The following are potential conflicts of interest related to an employee’s activities outside the company:
    Serving as a director, officer, partner, consultant, manager, or in any technical capacity or any key role with an organization, even if only part of the time, that conducts, or is likely to conduct, business with or competes with the company.
    Acting as a broker, finder or other intermediary for another party in transactions currently or potentially involving the company or its interests.
    Having any other employment, including running a separate business, if doing so interferes with the employee’s company job duties.
    Serving in a government position, if doing so interferes with the employee’s company job duties.
    Making presentations or submitting articles or other writings related to the employee’s professional area. Before agreeing to such activity, the employee’s manager should review the situation. Also, the employee should inquire as to whether the business unit has a manuscript or presentation review policy. These activities should not interfere with the employee’s job performance. Any honorariums offered the employee must comply with the DuPont Gifts & Entertainment Policy.
    Using one’s company position or title in connection with an outside activity that may infer the company’s sponsorship or support.
    Using the company’s property or information or one’s position with the company for personal gain.
    Using any company supplies or facilities in connection with an outside activity, unless approved by the employee’s manager.
    Using company time for outside business or activities.
 Employees should review any potential situations with their manager before they occur to ensure that these situations are not likely to become actual conflicts.
Insider Trading
“Inside information” is any non-public information important enough that it can affect the price of a company’s securities if disclosed. This may include, for example, data about expected earnings, mergers or acquisitions, or major product introductions, or developments in intellectual property or litigation. Employees must not trade any company’s securities based on inside information, or pass this information on to others who could use it to trade in the company’s securities. This restriction applies
to trading in DuPont stock, as well as in the stock of other companies about which employees may have inside information. The laws of many countries, including the United States, prohibit trading securities while possessing inside information. Penalties for violating insider trading laws are severe.
As a general rule, employees should wait two business days after inside information is publicly disclosed before trading DuPont stock, or the stock of any company about which they have inside information. Employees with access to inside information are not prohibited from receiving stock grants from DuPont reward programs. However, employees must not make any market-based transaction, such as selling stock, or changing an investment election into or out of the DuPont stock fund in
a company savings plan, while possessing inside information. If in doubt, do not trade, and contact Legal for guidance. Executive officers must follow a special pre-clearance procedure and should consult the Corporate Secretary before trading company stock.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
 Corporate Opportunities
In working at DuPont, employees are likely to learn about, or be involved in developing, business opportunities to serve the company’s corporate objectives. Employees must not take improper advantage of these situations. Specifically, employees may not:
    Personally take business opportunities that arise through use of company property, information, or one’s position with the company.
    Directly or indirectly compete with the company for business opportunities that the company is pursuing.
Political Contributions or Activities
Each country in which DuPont operates has restrictions on political contributions or activities by companies. Employees must consult with Legal to ensure strict
compliance with applicable laws. In addition, DuPont Government Affairs must approve any such contributions or activities on behalf of the company or that use company funds or resources. United States laws also may prohibit political contributions in other countries.
Employees can make personal contributions to a political party, committee, or candidate of their choice as long as the donation does not directly or indirectly involve company funds or other resources. No one should exert any direct or indirect pressure in any form on employees to contribute money or effort to support a political party or a political candidate.
Communicating the company’s position on matters of policy to government
employees and officials can make the employee and the company subject to applicable advocacy laws. Many local, state, and national governments require registration of political advocates, or “lobbyists,” with significant penalties for non-compliance.
The definition of a political advocate varies by location but may include almost any interaction with government officials for a business purpose. Employees must consult with Legal or Government Affairs prior to conducting business with government officials to determine if the employees must be registered. Employees should also contact Government Affairs and Legal if a need exists to engage political advocates.
Before allowing individuals to use company locations for political speeches or other political purposes, seek approval from Government Affairs and Legal. Use of company locations for such purposes may be considered a political contribution by the company.
Company assets include physical property, information, data, records, and intellectual property, such as brands, inventions, and copyrights.
Employees should comply with the following responsibilities:
    Acquiring assets: Use good judgment when obtaining assets for the company’s use. Acquire only assets that the company is permitted to have. Finally, ensure that DuPont gets a fair price when purchasing assets, such as supplies and raw materials.
    Using and handling assets: Use care when working with company assets to ensure that these important resources do not lose their value due to misuse.
    Safeguarding assets: Protect company assets from others’ misuse or theft. Company property and information should be stored in secure locations to prevent unauthorized access.
    Sharing assets: Share company assets with others outside of the company only when authorized and when doing so will not compromise the asset’s value or breach any laws or regulations.
    Following procedures: Comply with site security programs to safeguard physical property and other assets against
unauthorized use or removal, as well as against loss by criminal act or breach of trust.
    Disposing of assets: Dispose of company assets only with proper authorization, according to company procedures, in an appropriate way and when not illegal.
    Misusing assets: Help to protect against misuse of company assets by following applicable policies and raising concerns of misuse of company assets.
  Additional information can be found in RESOURCES
on the DuPont intranet.
 Computers & Communications Systems
Company assets include, but are not limited to, computers and related equipment and networks (including Internet access), software, telephone and voicemail systems, and personal  digital devices. Employees must safeguard these resources and protect the important company data stored on these systems.
In addition, because of the sensitive information computers may contain, employees must follow company policies and procedures regarding encrypting computers and protecting them from theft.
Corporate standards for electronic information security are available through line management or the DuPont Information Security Organization (DISO).
Non-Public  Information
It is critical that all employees protect company information  that has not been made public. Non-public information that has economic value to the company is “trade secret” information. Examples of company trade secret information include the following when not public: business plans, pricing and cost information, research and development plans and strategies, research data and inventions, product formulas and ingredi- ents, process and design information. “Inside information,” discussed earlier, is another example of non-public, confidential information that must not be shared with others without specific authorization.
Employees must be aware of trade secrets and take steps to effectively protect those trade secrets by complying with
the DuPont Trade Secrets Policy. Further, all employees must safeguard company non-public information from improper access, use, or disclosure by following DuPont DISO policies.
Trade secrets and other confidential information may be disclosed to others only under a written agreement, such as a confidential disclosure agreement, that remains in effect and applies to
the disclosure. When disclosed to another party, confidential information and samples must be marked as “Confidential.” Further, the disclosure must be limited to information necessary for the business purpose.  Legal must review confidentiality agreements others provide to DuPont before an employee signs any such agreement or receives the related information.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES
on the DuPont intranet.
Inventions
An “invention” is any new and useful work, such as a composition, process, method, or device. Like trade secrets, inventions can provide DuPont with a competitive advantage. Employees must effectively safeguard the company’s inventions.
Protecting company inventions may include filing for patents, depending on the competitive environment the company faces regarding the invention. For instance, if obtaining an enforceable patent is unlikely,
the company may maintain the invention as a trade secret, instead of publicly disclosing it in a patent application. In other situations, where obtaining a patent is not likely to provide any significant benefit, the company may elect to publish a description of the invention to prevent patenting by others instead of filing a patent application.
Employees must help the company avoid infringing on others’ valid patents. Before releasing a new product or undertaking a new industrial process, the responsible business unit or function should consult with Legal about conducting an appropriate patent review.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Brands, Trademarks & Copyrights
DuPont protects its intellectual property under trademarks, trade dress, patents, copyrights, and trade secret laws, among other tools. For example, the DuPont brand name and the DuPont  Oval Logo are among the company’s most important assets, and employees must ensure that they retain their value.
To safeguard company brands, trademarks, and copyrights, employees should:
    Become familiar with and properly use the DuPont Brand Identity System.
    Be aware of potential abuse of DuPont brands by co-workers, customers, suppliers, competitors, and on the Internet.
    Identify any brand abuse or infringement to line management, Corporate Marketing (through the Corporate Brand Protection Center), or the DuPont Legal Trademark and Copyright Group.
Also, employees must respect and properly use others’ trademarks and copyrighted materials, including when copying and distributing materials and using computer software.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Records & Reporting
All information the company produces is considered a record, regardless of how the information is maintained. Examples  of records include financial, accounting, technical, and sales
reports; production information; R&D records; personnel files; Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) information; contracts; marketing information; and business plans.
Employees should ensure that all company accounts and records:
    Are accurate and clearly describe and identify the relevant facts or the true nature of the business transaction, asset, liability, or equity.
    Are documented to properly and timely classify and record entries on the book of accounts, in compliance with company- adopted accounting principles.
Records related to accounting transactions and financial reporting must comply with company accounting policy and generally accepted accounting principles and standards. Employees
 must comply (and ensure that our contractors and consultants managing DuPont records comply) with the DuPont Corporate Records Information Management (CRIM) Policy when creating, maintaining, or disposing of DuPont records. Employees must never intentionally make record entries that are false, distorted, misleading, misdirected, or deliberately incomplete. Improper accounting and documentation and fraudulent financial reporting will likely violate company policy and legal and regulatory accounting standards. Such actions can make both the company and the responsible employee liable to civil and criminal penalties.
Many classes of records are subject to laws and regulations, such as occupational health and safety requirements and accounting standards. The DuPont Records Control Schedule, contained within the CRIM Policy, codifies these regulatory requirements for managing company records. In addition, the Schedule provides control requirements for non-regulated records. Employees must comply with the record control requirements in the Schedule unless the requirements conflict with local laws or contracts. In these instances, employees should consult with Legal and Finance.
The company’s internal control standards and procedures ensure that assets are protected and properly used and that financial records and reports are accurate and reliable. Employees share the responsibility for maintaining and complying with required internal controls.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
 
Expense Reporting & Reimbursement
Employees’ travel and entertainment should be consistent with the needs of business and follow company policies and procedures. The company’s intent is that an employee does not lose or gain financially as a result of company business
travel and entertainment. Employees are expected to spend the company’s money as carefully as they would their own.
Employees who submit or approve travel and entertainment expense reports are responsible for ensuring that:
    Expenditures are proper and reasonable.
    Expense reports are submitted promptly.
    Receipts and explanations properly support reported expenses.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Departing the Company
Employees who leave the company must:
    Promptly return all company assets, including physical materials and DuPont information assets, such as computers, mobile phones, calling cards, access cards, keys, business cards, and electronic storage media.
    Not make or take copies of DuPont information when departing.
    Not disclose DuPont non-public information to others even after leaving the company.
Failure to comply with this obligation may result in severe civil and criminal penalties.
Ensuring Sustainable Practices for Society
At DuPont, we want to help create a better world for people everywhere. Our core value of Environmental Stewardship is a principal example of the company’s commitment. We work to protect the environment and to be a good steward of our operations, products, and services. We compete lawfully and we support human rights standards. In the end, our efforts should be viewed based on the results that we achieve and the lives that we positively affect.
In This Section
Competition Practices Competitive Information
Government Relations, Government Business & Travel of Non-U.S. Government Officials
Environmental Protection & Sustainability Product Stewardship
Human Rights
Contacts with Outside Parties
 Violations of competition laws include agreements among competitors to:
    Fix or control prices or to set other terms and conditions of sale (for example, credit terms).
    Boycott specified suppliers or customers.
    Allocate customers, products, territories, or markets.
    Limit the production or sale of products.
These and other competition law violations can result in heavy penalties for the company and the individuals involved.
Employees must understand the applicable rules, especially if one’s work involves interacting with competitors, suppliers, customers, or distributors, gathering competitive information, or participating in trade associations. Employees should always take special care to ensure that others do not misinterpret an employee’s activities or discussions with other companies’ representatives as violations of competition law. In addition, employees are expected to consult with Legal before they participate in the following activities: (1) development of price communications,
(2) trade association meetings or similar situations involving competitors, or (3) any interactions with competitors.
Employees in sales and marketing, or those whose work involves interacting with competitors or participating in trade associations or trade shows, should review these policies periodically.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
There are heavy legal penalties for employees who misappropriate others’ trade secrets. Employees can help avoid having substantial civil and criminal penalties imposed on the company and themselves by complying with company guidelines. For example, when gathering competitive information, employees must follow these requirements:
    Do not misrepresent oneself or the reason for requesting information.
    Do not steal any information from a competitor or another business.
    Do not allow an agent or other person to obtain competitive information for the company in a way that one would not personally do.
    Talk with Legal if unsure of ways to responsibly gather competitive  information.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Overall Relations with Government Officials
When conducting business with a country’s government, employees must understand the rules by which it operates. Some governments heavily restrict gifts or meals that their officials can accept and heavily penalize companies that do not comply. Providing even small gifts or in- expensive meals to government officials may be improper or illegal and can easily be perceived as bribes or kickbacks, even if not intended to influence a particular action. Legal exceptions may exist, but employees should always first review any anticipated payments to government officials with Legal.
Government Business
When supplying products or services, either directly or indirectly to a government, the government may require that the company operate under unique legal and regulatory requirements imposed
upon government suppliers. Doing business with governments is not always the same as doing business with companies. Some practices that are acceptable with private companies may cause problems with a government agency.
A government’s special rules may span many areas of business conduct, such as collecting and tracking costs for products and services, protecting proprietary information, offering and accepting gifts or entertainment, and hiring former government employees. Additionally, governments often require contractors to certify compliance with various contract requirements.
Laws regarding government business are often complex and serious civil and criminal penalties for violations can be imposed on both the company and the employees. If unsure how to work with government officials, employees should contact Legal.
Travel of Non-U.S. Government Officials
For business reasons, it can be useful for non-U.S. government officials to visit DuPont facilities to help DuPont promote and demonstrate DuPont products. In these situations, it is permissible for DuPont
to cover reasonable and limited meal, travel, and accommodation expenses for a non-U.S. government official’s visit provided
such expenses are: a) legal under local laws and regulations,
b)  made directly by DuPont to the travel agency, hotel, or restaurant,
c)  are directly related by time and location to the site visit, and d) are in full accordance with the DuPont Gift & Entertainment Policy’s authorization, recording, and limitation requirements. Paying for travel of any government official is otherwise prohibited.
   Additional information can be found in RESOURCES
on the DuPont intranet.
  See also coverage of BRIBES & KICKBACKS on page 10.
 regulatory expectations and requirements.
    Minimize resource and energy consumption for our customers, ourselves, and society.
    Offer products with competitive advantage.
  Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Compliance with The DuPont Commitment and with applicable environmental laws is the responsibility of every employee.
Management in each business is responsible for educating, training, and motivating employees to understand and comply with our Commitment and all applicable laws. Every employee also has the responsibility to comply with the DuPont Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) policies, standards, and guidelines.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Employees should understand the company’s product stewardship and regulatory program and their role in the program so we can:
    Monitor the quality and efficacy of our products.
    Anticipate and respond to societal, customer, industry, and
Employees must conduct the company’s business in an  ethical and responsible manner that supports and respects the protection of human rights. Employees should work to identify and do business with companies which aspire to conduct their business in a similar manner.
The DuPont Human Rights Policy and Principles on Child and Forced Labor are based on our core values of Safety
& Health, Environmental Stewardship, Highest Ethical Behavior, and Respect for People. These policies operate in conjunction with and support our Code of Conduct,
The DuPont Commitment — Safety, Health & Environment,
our product stewardship programs, our regulatory compliance program, and our endorsement of the ten principles in the U.N. Global Compact.
Compliance with these policies and applicable laws is every employee’s responsibility. Each business and function’s management is responsible for educating, training, and motivating employees to understand and comply with these policies and applicable laws.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Only approved individuals should speak on behalf of the company to journalists, research analysts, government or  law enforcement officials, or other outside parties. Unless an employee has prior approval to discuss business with these outside parties, the employee should refer any inquiries from these individuals as follows:
Also, employees should not provide non-public information to non-company individuals without an authorized business need, especially when others may broadly disseminate this information. Certain laws restrict how the company can disclose information.

 See COMPETITION PRACTICES on page 24 regarding contacts with competitors.
 Preserving a Culture of Sustainability for Our Employees
The quality of our workplace influences the company’s success, because the work environment affects each employee’s sense of accomplishment and motivation to help the company succeed. This is why the DuPont core value of Respect for People is so important to us — respect for others helps us maintain a positive and constructive workplace. By showing respect for our colleagues, we demonstrate that we value their ideas and appreciate their unique contributions to the company.
In This Section
Respect for People
Equal Opportunity & Non-discrimination Non-harassment
Privacy & Personal Information Safety & Health
Equal Opportunity & Non-discrimination
DuPont does not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of age (within statutory limits), race, religion, color, gender, disability, national origin, ancestry, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or veteran status with respect to any terms  or condition of employment, including hiring, promotion, demotion, transfer, recruitment, termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation and selection for training.
Non-harassment
The company does not tolerate harassment of any kind. Harassment can unreasonably interfere with an individual’s work performance or create an intimidating or offensive work environment. Harassment can include slurs or derogatory comments, offers of job benefits in exchange for sexual favors, and other forms of offensive behavior.
Harassment can include conduct directed at or by a DuPont employee, or an employee of the company’s customers or suppliers, or other business associates. Inappropriate use of company computers and communications systems includes engaging in sexual, racial, or other types of harassment
and discrimination, and accessing sexually oriented and other inappropriate material. Inappropriate use of company electronic communications resources, regardless of the
medium, amounts to serious misconduct, and violators will be disciplined.
Employees who are aware of any suspected discrimination or harassment should report the matter to Human Resources.
 DuPont notifies employees about the personal information the company collects and how this information may be used
or shared for activities such as benefits administration, compensation, and computer systems access and security. Employees are expected to follow company policies and procedures to manage and safeguard this personally identifiable information, as described in the DuPont Global Information Privacy Policy. Local management should establish and maintain business procedures that are consistent with this policy and applicable local laws.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
Compliance with The DuPont Commitment and applicable safety and health laws is every employee’s responsibility. Management in each business is responsible for educating, training, and motivating employees to understand and comply with The DuPont Commitment and applicable safety and health laws. Each employee is also responsible for complying with the DuPont Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) policies, standards, and guidelines.
Additional information can be found in RESOURCES on the DuPont intranet.
ECSA (Engineering Council of South Africa)
Region: African Group
Country: South Africa
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Discipline Specific Guidelines:
Chemical Engineering
Acceptable Training for
Registration as Professional Engineers
It is recommended that Candidate Engineers (CEs) provide
a copy of this document to each supervisor of their training and to each of their referees.

1.  Introduction 
These guidelines are aimed at providing more information about the requirements for registration through the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) in addition to the broader requirements set out in Policy Statement R2/1A.
1.1 Candidates wishing to become registered as professional engineers with ECSA must- 
(i) hold a relevant academic qualification recognised by ECSA through accreditation or evaluation, or pass any examination which ECSA may prescribe; and
(ii)    demonstrate that they have been trained to an acceptable level of competence in defined elements, in so far as it relates to chemical engineering, for at least three years; and
(iii)   display attributes of a professional person.
1.2 Immediately upon graduation, candidates are encouraged to apply to ECSA for registration as candidate engineers (CEs), whereafter they will be provided with all relevant documents needed for the complete training period.
1.3 The recommended way of achieving the requisite levels of competence in all the training elements is through a focused and collaborative process of acceptable training, where the CEs and their employers (mentors) plan and execute the actual training on the basis of ECSA's Policy Statement R2/1A, as well as the training objectives listed in these Discipline Specific Guidelines.
1.4 CEs will be expected to gain practical experience in a position of responsibility and to prove that their education, training, experience and professional development have enabled them to discharge, in full, the responsibilities of a professional engineer in chemical engineering.
2.  Academic Qualifications 
2.1 The minimum academic qualification required for registration as a CE is an accredited bachelor's degree in chemical engineering obtained from a South African university.
The list of South African bachelor degrees in chemical engineering, accredited by ECSA, may be obtained from the Education Department of ECSA at:
Tel:    (011) 607-9500  or in writing at:   Private Bag X691
Fax:    (011) 622-9295      Bruma
E-mail: engineer@ecsa.co.za     2026
Web:    www.ecsa.co.za
2.2 Persons who have graduated from a university not accredited by ECSA will be assessed individually on merit. If their qualifications are evaluated as being at least equivalent to an accredited South African degree, candidates will be eligible for registration as CEs and could then follow the formal route to registration as professional engineers.
2.3 Persons whose qualifications are not accredited or recognised by ECSA may follow an alternative route to meet the academic requirements for registration as CEs.  Candidates must apply to ECSA and obtain the necessary information on the procedure to be followed.
2.4 Those who meet ECSA's academic requirements should register as CEs without delay.  Application forms can be obtained from ECSA.  CEs must, from the outset, also obtain copies of the application form for registration as professional engineers.
3.  Training and Professional Development under a Commitment and Undertaking (CU), and Mentorship
Commitment and Undertaking (CU) 
3.1 CEs must persuade their employers to register a Commitment and Undertaking with ECSA, namely that they will structure the training of, and actually train, their CEs, in accordance with the requirements of ECSA's Policy Statement R2/1A as well as the requirements set out in these Discipline Specific Guidelines. Each CU will be allocated a permanent registration number, which should be quoted by all CEs when applying for registration as professional engineers.
3.2 Employers must, at the same time, submit the name(s) of a mentor(s) from within the organisation (see § 3.4 below) or, if an internal mentor is not available, the name of an external mentor (see § 3.5 below) to guide CEs through the required process of training.  A CU will not be registered by ECSA unless the name of at least one mentor (internal or external) is provided.
Mentorship and Supervision 
3.3 ECSA and the South African Institution of Chemical Engineers (SAIChE) will jointly maintain a list of internal and external mentors. A mentor must be registered as a professional engineer. Council will only in exceptional cases consider the listing of experienced and mature professional engineering technologists, professional certificated engineers, or professional engineering technicians, upon application and motivation by the organisation/mentor concerned. These mentors will be deemed not only to be capable of fulfilling their functions in a professional manner but also as being committed to advising and guiding their CEs in their professional development.
3.4 It is STRONGLY RECOMMENDED that all CEs should have a mentor who is working in the same organisation as the CE (internal mentor).
3.5 If an internal mentor is not available, a list of external mentors can be obtained from ECSA or SAIChE.  It will be expected of employers who make use of the services of external mentors to create an environment in which such mentors can feel free to make recommendations in the reasonable knowledge that their recommendations will be given sympathetic consideration.
3.6 It will be expected of all mentors to become fully conversant with their functions and responsibilities referred to in Policy Statement R2/1A and guidelines issued by ECSA from time to time, to conduct regular discussions with their CEs and to assess their progress in accordance with the guidelines set out in Policy Statement R2/1A and these Discipline Specific Guidelines.  Since the effectiveness of mentors will continuously be monitored, Council will attach much value to the opinion of "the conscientious mentor" as to the registrability (or otherwise) of their CEs.
3.7 It is not expected of mentors to take responsibility for the day-to-day supervision and training of CEs.  Mentors/employers should do everything in their power to ensure that competent persons, preferably registered with ECSA, are available to oversee this function as supervisors.
4.  General
4.1 Training reports, which must be updated regularly, form an essential part of the monitoring process, and these reports must be filled in on the correct forms (Forms A2.1 and A2.2) of the application form.  These forms are part of the application form, which should be obtained from ECSA as soon as the CEs start their training.
4.2 It is a requirement that CEs who are aspiring to become professional engineers should, with the assistance of their mentors, achieve their training objectives by structuring their training in such a way as to cover the various elements of training referred to in Policy Statement R2/1A and these Discipline Specific Guidelines.
4.3 The rate at which CEs progress through their training is determined by themselves, their mentors and other factors, such as the state of the economy and availability of training opportunities. 
4.4 Where CEs, training under a CU decide to change employers, they should ensure that they continue their training under another CU registered by their new employers.  CEs should also ensure that their new employers provide mentors to guide them through the remainder of their training period and to take over where the previous mentor ended.  It may even be advisable to retain the previous mentor, if this is at all practicable. 
4.5 Once all the objectives have been achieved to the satisfaction of the mentor, CEs should, in principle be registerable, and could then apply for registration as professional engineers.  Depending on the circumstances, CEs may expect to take a minimum of three years to achieve acceptable competence in all the prescribed elements.
4.6 Regardless of whether or not CEs train under a CU, it is recommended that they strive to participate in a process of continuing learning. This concept includes continuing education and professional development.
4.7 Continuing learning may include attending courses, technical conferences, seminars, symposia, organised site visits, and meetings of professional bodies, as well as self-study.  The process of continuing learning should achieve a balance between technical content and managerial/professional aspects.
4.8 The mentors of CEs should, on a consultative basis, suggest suitable continuing learning programmes.
4.9 SAIChE and educational institutions may be able to assist in advising on courses which are available.
4.10    It will be to the advantage of CEs when applying for registration as professional engineers if they can demonstrate their participation in a process of continuing learning.
5.  Discipline Specific Elements 
5.1 Introduction - Evaluation of Training
The acceptability of the total training is evaluated by ECSA when, after completion of the training, an application for registration as a Pr Eng has been submitted.  Council's evaluation is based on the applicant's ability to solve technical problems and manage engineering tasks by showing:
    engineering skill and judgement; decision making ability
    knowledge of relevant legislation
    ability to communicate with all relevant parties
    appreciation of ethical and social issues 
The training should focus on carrying out meaningful engineering tasks, preferably under the direct supervision of a chemical engineer, under the general guidance of a Professional Engineer and following (if available) a training programme for chemical engineers.
5.2 Core Elements in The Training of Chemical Engineers
    Chemical engineers usually work on plant operations, product application, contracting (projects), process development or research.  In all these cases, the core of the work requires both logical and creative thinking and consists of a com¬bination of:     
In these core elements, CEs must critically apply their knowledge of scientific and engineering principles in full awareness of the engineering procedures applicable to their discipline of engineering.  They must make themselves aware of the structure of the organisation in which they work and of the functions of the various organisations involved in their discipline of engineering, such as the SA Institution of Chemical Engineers.  In this professional environment ECSA requires the CE to have:
    a general knowledge of legislation which has a bearing on the practice of engineering in South Africa, with a working knowledge of the provisions of the Engineering Profession Act, 2000 (Act 46 of 2000), and the Acts and Regulations applicable to their specific discipline of engineering;
    a good understanding of the code of Professional Conduct applicable to registered persons;
    full familiarity with the requirements for registration set out in Policy Statement R2/1A as well as in these discipline specific guidelines. 
5.2.1   Problem solving
Problem solving deals not only with current problems ("trouble shooting"), but also with envisaged future problems and the exploration of opportunities for improvements and innovation.  Problem solving consists of a sequence with the following major steps:
   organisation of the available information on a recognised problem 
   problem analysis (including cause identification) 
   synthesis of problem solutions 
   evaluation of problem solution which must meet the objective, using criteria such as: 
   product specifications 
   capital and operating costs 
   operability; integration into existing situation 
   hazards and environmental aspects to arrive at a decision on the optimum solution, 
   implementation of the problem solution 
   monitoring of the results 
5.2.2   Management 
In the management of problem solving in its broadest sense, chemical engineers will have to deal with "the five Ms", always to be considered in the context of Time and Place:
o   Materials   o   Machines (equipment)    o   Money (costs)
o   Manpower    o   Methods (procedures; systems)
Planning and progress evaluation are important subsidiary elements of management.
Responsibility  –  It is expected of CEs to take on increasing levels of responsibility for meeting the requirements of the assigned tasks and for making engineering decisions in their own work and in the work of the supervised personnel.  Account must be taken of the legal and ethical obligations summed up in the Code of Professional Conduct of the engineering profession.  CEs are also expected: 
   to participate in carrying out the policies of the organisation in which they work 
   to co-operate effectively with the engineering team they may form part of  
   to develop their professional skills, and 
   never to compromise on integrity 
Inter-disciplinary nature of engineering  –  The CE must come to realise that chemical engineering depends on various disciplines and there is often a need to engage people with different skills; development of a co-operative work attitude is essential.
5.2.3   Communication 
In problem solving and in carrying out and managing their part of the work, engineers depend heavily on communication with others, verbally (sometimes involving visual aids) and in written documents.
Communications must be well-structured, accurate, brief and clear.  In engineering, the communications (technical, scientific, financial, etc.) are written with specific objectives.  Therefore, they must be written towards achieving these objectives - essay style and flowery verbiage are out.
5.3 Detailed Elements for Chemical Engineers 
Naturally, the core elements will involve various engineering subjects, but specifics depend on the needs of the work environment.  For chemical engineers, this environment may be industries involved with mineral oil, petrochemicals, inorganic chemicals, coal and other minerals, paper, pharma¬ceuticals, food and agricultural products, water, effluents and wastes, or government organizations dealing with these industries.  The training of each chemical engineer can therefore only encompass the elements present in his work environment. However, this training is required to cover a variety of engineering subjects and to have a good engineering content.  The reports to be submitted must specify the engineering contributions made by the CE.
Most chemical CEs are engaged in one or more of the following broad fields:
   Process plant operation and its technological support and product distribution and application 
   Process and plant design, equipment selection, erection and commissioning of process plants or modifications 
   Research, development, technology transfer and project evaluation 
Details of the type of training recommended in each of these fields are given below.  It is not expected that the training would necessarily comprise all the elements listed.  It is acceptable to place emphasis on certain elements as required by the employer or as commensurate with the aptitude of the CE. Prescribing specific combinations of elements in the training is not considered practical, but an element of problem solving and consideration of safety aspects should be present.
5.3.1   Process plant operation, etc.
Routine operation of process plant is considered valid training provided the CE is gaining understanding of the operations and takes increasing responsibility for specific tasks, for instance the running of a plant section, or tasks as listed below.  Being involved in routine operation for prolonged periods may not give sufficient opportunity for facing a variety of engineering subjects.  One of the most useful ways in which the CE can gain experience is to be a member of a team responsible for overcoming a technical problem in a plant.
Operations tasks:
    Measurement and analysis of performance data; working out material and energy balances 
    Checking the accuracy of measuring instruments and the selection and application of new instrumentation 
    Product quality control; measuring quality and meeting specifications; in some industries there is also responsibility for product distribution and product application which can have a bearing on production 
    Evaluation of plant records and operating costs 
    Involvement in cost control and budgeting 
    Recognition of existing problems, foreseeing future problems and recognition of opportunities for plant or product improvements 
    Optimization and control of the process to improve performance 
    Application of engineering principles in working out the various options that may exist for overcoming a technical problem; techno-economic feasibility studies 
    Application of safety principles in the plant and also taking into account that an engineer may not endanger the life and limb of the public through negligence and may not cause serious damage to the environment 
    Maintaining good relations and effective communication among the members of the engineering team, management and the work force and maintaining sound labour relation practices 
    Accurate, brief and clear reporting on those matters in which the CE is involved. 
5.3.2   Process Design, etc. 
Training elements in this field relevant to chemical engineers are:
Plant design –
    preparation of flow sheets and material and energy balances 
    optimization of the plant system; using models to determine optimum configuration 
    communication with a drawing office and an engineering purchasing office 
    checking of working drawings for suitability with respect to the process and space 
    specification, design and selection of equipment and service requirements, with reference to the applicable codes and consideration of the suitability of materials used (corrosion), their surface treatment, checking the reliability of data on the properties of materials to be processed or produced, economics, instrumentation, quality control, logistics, safety, spillage management and the effect on the environment 
    planning start up and shutdown procedures 
    operability analysis 
    hazard analysis; this should include a check on the possibility of the occurrence of extreme fluid dynamic, process kinetic or temperature conditions (through appropriate modelling) 
Note:  Mechanical design, plant fabrication and erection (rigging) are in the first instance the responsibility of mechanical and electrical engineers.  Yet, the chemical engineer may be involved in erection programming, the safety aspects of connecting up to existing plant and supervision of the installation of uncomplicated plant modifications.
    commissioning; measurement and analysis of plant performance versus design data; responsibility for acceptable plant performance; elimination of operability and other problems and unacceptable bottlenecks; checking on compliance with safety standards. 
    Accurate, brief and clear reporting on the matters in which the CE is involved. 
5.3.3   Research & Development, etc. 
In this field, the CE may be involved in the following elements:
    identification of the cause(s) of a problem in a systematic manner (symptoms are not causes) 
    identification of an opportunity for improving current operations, extending the product range, changing the feed source, developing new methodology for design or processing or developing new applications for products 
    critical analysis of the available information and generation of required information 
    motivating a research, development or plant modification project based on technical and economic merits 
    planning and carrying out experimental investigations in a scientific manner on a laboratory, pilot plant or industrial plant scale or an investigation on relevant theoretical support; ascertaining that the measurements made are of sufficient accuracy, that the property data of any material used are reliable and that spillage and waste are handled properly 
    consideration of the safety aspects of proposed work, ascertaining whether the materials used have any dangerous properties and whether the methods and equipment used are safe and sound 
    data processing to bring them into a format that facilitates interpretation and presentation 
    evaluation of experimental or theoretical results, or evaluation of a proposed major project (techno-economic evaluation); deriving conclusions in a logical way and formulating recommendations based on these conclusions 
    compilation of the results into a structured report; verbal presentation of progress and results 
    technology transfer to ensure that the maximum benefit is obtained from the research and development effort. 
5.3.4   Lectureship 
Lecturers are often involved in the mentoring of CEs as well as in research, in engineering faculties, and as such make a valuable contribution to the training of future engineers.  However, to be able to become a professional engineer the lecturer must become involved in the application of engineering knowledge by way of applied research and consulting work under the supervision of a professional engineer.
Experience should be obtained in as many of the areas listed above as possible.  Since this will usually be undertaken on a part time basis, a period of 5 years of such training will be required for registration.  However, should individuals consider that their experience is equivalent to that of three years in non-lecturing engineering, the application should be considered on its merits by ECSA's Professional Advisory Committee on Chemical Engineering.
5.3.5   Other development of Engineers in Training 
Reaching increasing levels of responsibility is one of the main aims in the training period and, where possible, this should include responsibility for the work of others.  It is also important that CEs extend their knowledge both in engineering subjects and non-engineering skills, such as the management of personnel, financial aspects and communication skills at the professional level.  Participation in practice-oriented courses on such subjects can make a valuable contribution to their development.
5.4 Specialist Training 
Applicants with an accredited or recognised engineering degree, having specialised in a narrow field at an early stage might not comply with the "sufficient variety" requirement for registration.
However, provided that the applicant's specialist knowledge is at least at the level of a master’s degree and provided that the applicant has demonstrated an ability, at a professional level, to identify engineering problems, and to produce solutions which can be satisfactorily implemented, a degree of trade-off may be acceptable in assessing the experience.  Where an applicant's experience is judged to be in a narrow specialist field, a minimum of five years' experience after obtaining the bachelor degree in engineering will be required, but each application will be considered on merit.

ENOC (Emirates National Oil Company)
Region: Asian-Pacific Group
Country: UAE
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

The Way We Lead...  
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
ENOC VISION, MISSION AND VALUES
ENOC VISION
ENOC VALUES
To be a leading regional integrated oil & gas group highly profi and socially responsible towards employees, community and environment.
ENOC MISSION
 Achieving sustainable development and highly profitable growth
 Serving growing energy needs of Dubai
 Attracting, developing and retaining top talent to become the employer of choice
 Adopting latest technologies and implementing best practices thus achieving world – class performance
 Meeting and exceeding customer expectations in terms of quality and service
 Maintaining high industry standards in Environment, Health and Safety
ENOC values have been imbibed in word and spirit of the Code. As stated by the Chief Executive Officer, “It is extremely important and imperative to realize that we need to focus on and live those values in all our actions and decisions. Going forward, these values should be our guiding principles in our journey to excellence”.
We want our decisions and actions to demonstrate these ‘Values’. We believe that putting our ‘Values’ into practice creates long-term benefits for shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, and the communities we serve.
TEAM WORK – working together by sharing ownership, responsibilities and outcome.
INTEGRITY – being honest, truthful, reliable and fair, while dealing with all stakeholders.
TRANSPARENCY – being open, straightforward and consistent in all we do, by communicating with clarity, simplicity and precision.
RESPECT – acknowledge, recognize, and value all stakeholders.
CUSTOMER FOCUS – position customer first in all that we do.
Emirates National Oil Company (ENOC) Code of Business Conduct has been launched to effectively meet industry challenges and ensure highest ethical practices in carrying out its business activities thereby providing a solid foundation for future growth.
ENOC places the highest value of integrity on its directors, offi employees and its entities. These stakeholders are responsible for complying with all applicable laws and regulations in each country where ENOC does business and for knowing and complying with this Code and other ENOC policies.
Violations of the Code are subject to disciplinary actions including termination. Business units are responsible for ensuring that their policies and practices are consistent with this Code. The policies in this Code apply across ENOC businesses in all countries. If a local law conflicts with a policy in this Code, the local law shall take precedence.
This Code is a baseline while the business policies and practices may require more compliance than required by the Code. In those instances, entities must follow the stricter policy, practice or law. The Code is not a compilation of ENOC policies.
The Code and its terms may be modifi  or eliminated at any time by ENOC. ENOC entities and employees are responsible for being familiar with its contents. The most current version of the Code is available on ENOC employee portal.
The rights of an employee and ENOC’s rights as an employer are governed by the laws of the country of employment, the policies of the employing entities and the individual’s written employment contract. This Code is not intended to clarify ENOC’s rights and expectations as an employer. In case of any doubts, employees should approach the Business Ethics & Compliance (BE&C) function.
In extraordinary conditions, an entity may seek approval of actions that otherwise would not be compliant with the Code. Approval of any such actions must be sought in advance and may be granted only by the Business Ethics Committee (BEC).
BUSINESS ETHICS COMMITTEE
The Business Ethics Committee (BEC) has been established to oversee various aspects related to ENOC Code of Business Conduct. The purpose of the committee is to review and recommend to managment the objectives, policies and procedures that best serves ENOC’s interests in maintaining a business environment committed to high standards of ethics and integrity, corporate responsibility and legal compliance. The Committee’s authority and responsibility is defined by the Business Ethics Committee Charter.
The BEC is comprised of the Chief Executive Offi , Chief Ethics & Compliance Offi and heads of HR and legal departments.
BUSINESS ETHICS & COMPLIANCE FUNCTION
The Business Ethics & Compliance function (BE&C) has been established at ENOC by ENOC Audit
Committee. The function, headed by the Chief Ethics
& Compliance Officer, functionally reports to the established Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Executive Offi    .
BE&C has formally adapted an Ethics & Compliance Program with activities related to establishment of Code of Business Conduct for ENOC and its stakeholders, related policies, management of Ethics Hotline, case investigations, resolution, and its reporting, awareness and trainings to reinforce the Code as well as to ensure greater transparency in its implementation. The function is also supported by an independent Business Ethics Committee.
ETHICS HOTLINE
ENOC Ethics Hotline is an independent and confidential multi-lingual platform available through phone, fax
and email to report conduct that may be in violation with ENOC Code of Business Conduct. This has been designed to enable employees and other stakeholders to easily and confi  report any issue or instance of misconduct. The service is manned by professional and experienced consultants, able to attend to employees effectively and take the initiative in dealing with sensitive disclosures appropriately
RETALIATION
ENOC’s commitment to integrity includes a responsibility to foster an environment that allows people to report violations without the fear of retaliation or retribution. No one should be discouraged from using any available channels within ENOC.
Anyone who retaliates against another employee for reporting known or suspected violations of ENOC’s legal or ethical obligations is in violation of the Code and subject to disciplinary action.
FAIR TREATMENT
ENOC treats each individual fairly and recruits, selects, trains, promotes and compensates based on merit, experience and other work-related criteria. ENOC complies with all UAEl laws governing employment and labour practices.
Freedom from discrimination includes freedom from any form of discriminatory harassment. Harassment includes conduct that is intended to interfere or that has the effect of interfering with a fellow employee’s work performance or creating an environment that is intimidating, hostile, or offensive to the individual.
Reference Documents: Human Resources Policy Manual (Code of Business Conduct and Corrective and Guidance Policy)

TOLERANCE
ENOC strongly supports each employee’s right to his or her personal beliefs and values. However, personal beliefs aside from those covered by the Code, should not be forced on others in the workplace.
Employees should not use ENOC communication tools (letters, e-mail, bulletin boards etc.) or facilities to advocate religious, ethnic, political or other potentially sensitive personal preferences.
Employees should not create, disseminate or circulate malicious rumors and gossip, which effect fellow colleagues, thus creating an atmosphere of stress, un-productivity and employee disengagement.
Reference Document: Human Resources Policy Manual (Code of Business Conduct)

ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY (EHS)
EHS plays a fundamental role in the businesses within ENOC. The overall strategy for managing EHS risks is embodied in ENOC EHSQ Policy.
This Policy commits management and staff to operate ENOC facilities in a manner, which protects and preserves the natural environment, and promotes the health, safety and security of its employees, customers, suppliers, contractors and the general public. ENOC firmly believes that implementation of EHS guidelines is important to ensure sustainability of its operations and directs the way it runs its businesses.
As a minimum, ENOC will abide by local and national EHS laws as well as comply with internationally accepted standards and practices. ENOC shall as an organization, apply the best practice standards where applicable.
ALCOHOL AND DRUGS
    To support the goals outlined in the ENOC EHSQ Policy, ENOC has developed guidelines to ensure that:
 There is consistent implementation of EHS rules and regulations across ENOC Group
 EHS policies, plans and programs are aligned with corporate business plans
 Management is constantly made aware of the EHS performance of ENOC Group
 Duties, responsibilities and expectations are properly identified
 ENOC Group is provided with sufficient logistical resources to handle all credible emergency scenarios
 Compliance review frameworks and mechanisms are defined
 Approved codes of practice exist to guide operating companies/affiliates on effective implementation of EHS practices
Reference Document: EHSQ Policy
ENOC conducts its business with high standards of safety, concern for the environment and the health of its employees. ENOC policy is to maintain an alcohol and drugs-free work environment.
Apart from being a serious violation to the local regulations, the abuse of alcohol, drugs (illegal or legal) or other substances in and outside of the workplace can impair performance and be a serious threat to both the health and safety of the individual and their fellow workers. As a socially responsible organization, ENOC is fully committed to ensure that all its work places are completely “Alcohol and Drugs Free”.
ENOC has a “zero tolerance” policy on drugs, alcohol or other substances for employees on duty. All employees must be aware of and abide by its Alcohol and Drugs Policy Statement. ENOC strives to maintain working conditions which are safe and
compliant with all applicable laws for its employees and visitors to its premises.
Reference Documents: Human Resources Policy Manual (Alcohol and Drugs Policy Statement and Corrective and Guidance Policy)
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION
ENOC is committed to a safe working environment, free of threats, intimidation and physical harm. Everyone has the right to work in a safe environment and shares the responsibility for assuring each other’s safety.
ENOC adopts a zero tolerance workplace violence policy. This means that ENOC will investigate and take appropriate action against any threat to a safe workplace.
ENOC prohibits violent behavior including, but not limited to, physical assaults, fights, threatening comments, intimidation, and the intentional or
reckless destruction of property belonging to ENOC, its employees or customers.
Any comments or behavior that could reasonably be interpreted as intent to do harm to people or property should be considered a threat and must be reported to BEC.
ENOC also prohibits the unauthorized possession and/or use of weapons by any individual on ENOC premises.
Reference Documents: Human Resources Policy Manual (Corrective and Guidance Policy)
CONFLICT OF INTEREST
BUSINESS COURTESIES, GIFTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Employees are expected to give their undivided loyalty to ENOC when conducting job-related duties. ENOC requires that its employees do not engage in, or give the appearance of engaging in, any activity involving any conflict, or reasonably foreseeable conflict, between their personal interests and the interests of ENOC.
A conflict of interest occurs when personal interests interfere with an employee’s ability to exercise his judgment objectively in the best interests of ENOC.
Very often, a confl ct of interest occurs when employees make decisions on behalf of ENOC, while also having a controlling or fi
interest in, or receive financial benefits from, an organization that wants to do business with ENOC.
Conflict of interest can arise in many common areas, despite our best efforts to avoid them. However, such conflicts can generally be resolved by promptly notifying the line manager or designated authority of any actual,
perceived, or potential conflict of interest situation.
The manager can then provide guidance on how best to resolve the confl If needed, an employee may also contact BE&C for guidance.
Conflict of interest must also be disclosed in the annual “Confl    of Interest Disclosure Form”. If, during the year, any event or circumstance results in development of conflict of interest by the employee, the line manager / supervisor should be informed immediately and the “Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form” should then be resubmitted.
All ENOC employees are prohibited from using ENOC property, information or position for personal gain or to compete with ENOC.
Reference Document: Conflict of  Interest Code
A business courtesy is a gift or service (whether in money or in kind) provided to or received from a business associate.
ENOC neither seeks to improperly influence the decisions of its contractors or vendors by offering extravagant business courtesies nor accepting such courtesies from contractors or vendors.
All employees and representatives of ENOC should understand the ethical issues associated with gifts and entertainment and how these can affect its relationship and reputation with the customers and suppliers.
The issue of gifts and gratuities may have legal implications when the Government or a Government entity is involved and serious consequences can result from mishandling these relationships. Offering or accepting bribes and pay-offs is strictly prohibited.
EMPLOYMENT OF IMMEDIATE RELATIVES
OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT
Business gifts that compromise, or even appear to compromise, our ability to make objective and fair business decisions are inappropriate. Any doubt should be resolved in favor of not giving or receiving the gift.
ENOC employees and their immediate relatives are generally not permitted to accept any business courtesy or other benefit of any type offered in connection with ENOC business transactions.
However, employees may accept:
 Limited refreshments and meals, when these items are provided during a business meeting
 Reasonable and infrequent meals and entertainment when offered by a business associate for a legitimate business reason and when local custom or practice would make it inappropriate to decline the offer
 Promotional business items with only token value as per the limit provided in Conflict of Interest Code Reference Document: Conflict of  Interest Code
ENOC wants to make sure that its workplace is fair and untainted by any possible perception of favoritism.
To ensure that all employees are hired, rewarded and promoted fairly, ENOC has a policy of not employing immediate relatives of the existing employees without requisite approvals. Immediate relatives include father, mother, sister, brother, wife, husband, son or daughter.
Immediate relatives cannot be employed in jobs where an ENOC employee has effective control over any aspect of the related employee’s job.
In circumstances where immediate relatives are, or may become involved in business activity / employment related to ENOC, the employee should disclose the nature of the relationship to ENOC and remove himself/ herself from any related decision-making process.
Reference Document: Human Resources Policy Manual (Recruitment)
ENOC employment contracts prohibit employment of its employees at any other organization while working at ENOC. Accordingly, ENOC will strictly enforce this provision and any employee who violates this prohibition will be subject to disciplinary action, including termination of employment.
Reference Documents: Conflict of Interest Code and Human Resources Policy Manual (Employment Contract)
THIRD PARTY RELATIONS
ENOC competes fairly and in accordance with the highest ethical and professional standards in its third party relationships. ENOC entities shall ensure that business is generated based on the superior services and products with competitive prices, and not through improper, unethical, or questionable business practices.
Moreover, the entities shall strive for:
Honesty, integrity, fairness and compliance with established tendering, procurement and contracting policies, procedures and practices
Championing social responsibility and sustainability practices in procurement
Avoiding the dealings that might prevent or obstruct the effective operation of fair competition Encouraging and supporting reliable contractors and suppliers, locally and internationally
Long-lasting business relationships built on trust and mutual benefit giving preference to
competitive and quality goods and services, promoting positive supplier and customer relationships Avoiding behaviors or actions that may negatively influence, or appear to influence, procurement decisions
Reference Document: Quality Management System Manual
VENDOR SELECTION
ENOC entities will ensure that the all vendors are selected based on appropriate criteria, such as qualifications, competitive price and reputation.
Anyone responsible for buying or leasing goods or services on behalf of ENOC must conscientiously guard their objectivity and avoid any improper reciprocal agreements.
Terms of ENOC’s business relationships, including all external procurement commitments, i.e. Purchase
Orders, Contracts, Agreements, Performance Criteria, Schedules, Prices and responsibilities are established as per Procurement Policy in force and full confidentiality is maintained to protect mutual information.
The Vendors or any other third party goods/services providers who do business with and/or represent ENOC to conduct their business, are required to be in compliance with all applicable local and international laws, trade agreements and regulations as well as follow the highest ethical and professional standards.
Reference Documents: ENOC Group Procurement Procedures
RECORDS MANAGEMENT
ENOC adheres to the highest standards of honesty and integrity. It is essential that the internal and external reports and documents that ENOC creates, makes public, or provides to its stakeholders, constitute full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosures.
The information that entities create, such as financial reports, accounting records, business plans, environmental reports etc. are required to be accurate, truthful, and properly maintained. The users of this information may be employees, government representatives, auditors and legal bodies.
ENOC and its employees must ensure the retention of records for requisite periods and that such records are subject to timely destruction when the specified retention period expires. “Record” for this purpose includes hard copies of documents, records on computers and electronic systems.
Employees who contribute to the creation / preparation of records are responsible for reading and understanding ENOC policies, directives and other procedures as they apply to their organization.
Reference Documents: Statuary and Financial Record Retention Policy and Guidance Note (Refer Legal Department for additional guidance)
COMPANY PROPERTY
ENOC employees should protect company property to ensure its efficient use. Theft, carelessness, and waste have a direct impact on ENOC’s profitability.
All ENOC assets are to be used for legitimate company purposes. Any suspected incident of fraud or theft should be immediately reported for investigation through provided means of communications like the hotline.
The obligation of employees to protect ENOC’s assets also includes the company’s proprietary information (refer Intellectual Property clause also)
Reference Document: Human Resources Policy Manual (Corrective and Guidance Policy)
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Patents, trademarks and copyrights prohibit the unlicensed use of a protected invention, identifi (such as a name or logo) or work (such as a photograph, printed materials, or software).Violating such rights, even inadvertently, can result in severe consequences.
Therefore, steps should be taken to avoid infringement of non-ENOC patents and/or trademarks, and employees should never make use of technology patented by another company without permission.
Further, utilization of ENOC’s intellectual property (if not adequately protected) may affect ENOC’s competitive advantage. Such intellectual property includes confidential business information, trade secrets, patented inventions, processes, trademarks and copyrighted works.
The entities should ensure that ENOC interests are protected from any intellectual property infringements.
Reference Document: Guidance Note (Refer Legal Department for additional guidance)
TRADEMARKS
To pursue its business interests and create a positive image, ENOC uses a number of brands, logos and trademarks for its businesses. Employees should ensure that these are correctly utilized and depict ENOC brand in a good light.
Permission in advance should be obtained from the Brand and Corporate Communications Management (BCCM) to ensure correct usage in line with ENOC policies.
Further, the entities should ensure that brands, logos and trademarks have been registered with appropriate authorities.
Reference Documents: Brand and Corporate Communications Management Policies related to Corporate Communications, Public Relations and Sponsorship
INFORMATION USE AND SECURITY
All entities should use ENOC information resources for responsible and authorized business purposes. The information should be shared only on a “need to know basis”.
Entities should follow “clean desk” policy and all the confidential information should be kept in a secured environment. Entities should also be familiar with and follow pertinent IT policies.
IT users must keep all passwords confidential and are responsible to report any suspected security violations to their immediate supervisor / line manager, Information Technology Department or BE&C.
E-mail systems are not entirely secure and may be susceptible to interception and caution should be exercised while sending or receiving mails to / from unknown sources.
Reference Document: IT Users Code of Conduct
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
PROPRIETARY INFORMATION
PUBLIC STATEMENTS
ENOC’s confidential information refers to information that is not officially available in public domain. Information is a valuable corporate asset and its appropriate dissemination is critical to the organization’s success.
ENOC’s confidential information is to be used solely in pursuits of the company’s business interests and must not be disclosed by any employee during or subsequent to termination of the employment relationship.
All requests for any information from a government body should be brought to the attention of the immediate supervisor / line manager and no information should be furnished until appropriate authorizations have been obtained.
Reference Document: Human Recousres Policy Manual (Employment Contract-Confidentiality Statement)
Entities are responsible for maintaining the confi  of trade secrets and all other information, whether intellectual property or otherwise, that is of technical or commercial value to the company.

Disclosure of confidential or proprietary information could seriously damage ENOC image and safeguarding this information is the responsibility of all employees and representatives.
Employees should be careful not to share information with others, including other employees, unless they need to know it for a legitimate business reason that will not violate any law, regulation, or ENOC policy.
Employees need to guard against unintentionally disclosing proprietary or confidential information in situations such as discussions in public or usage of other insecure communication means for transmittal of information.
Reference Document: Human Recousres Policy Manual (Employment Contract-Confidentiality Statement)
It is important that ENOC provides the public with accurate and consistent information regarding its operations, when required.
Unless otherwise authorized, employees must not make public statements regarding issues or matters about which they are not authorized spokespersons.
All enquiries made by the media and / or similar parties should be channeled through the Brand and Corporate Communications Manager who will then discuss the appropriate response with the departments or individuals concerned.
The Brand and Corporate Communications Manager will prepare the release, or the statement, according to established corporate rules and policies and liaise directly with the media organizations involved. Quotes on all aspects of the business will be attributed directly to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or in some cases to the Brand and Corprorate Communications Manager.
 Any exception will be decided upon by CEO or the Brand and Corprorate Communications Manager according to the best interest of ENOC.
Reference Documents: Brand and Corporate Communications Management Policies related to Corporate Communications, Public Relations, Spondorships, Donations and Corporate Social Responsibility
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
ENOC has a global reach. The laws that need to be adhered to by ENOC or its vendors may differ by country. All employees involved in ENOC’s transnational businesses should be familiar with and adhere to these requirements.
Employees must know and comply with the letter and spirit of the laws of all countries wherever and whenever ENOC’s business needs are affected.
Reference Document: Guidance Note (Refer Legal Department for additional guidance)
ANTI-CORRUPTION COMPLIANCE

ENOC prohibits entities / employees from bribing, providing facilitation payments or offering, promising, or authorizing anything of value directly or indirectly in order to obtain or retain business. Entities / individual employees can be held liable for such payments.
Reference Document: Guidance Note (Refer Legal Department for additional guidance)
GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS
All employees of ENOC are required to fully cooperate with any appropriate government investigation, provided ENOC is adequately represented in such investigation by its own legal counsel.
Any time an employee receives information about any new non-routine government investigation or inquiry, this information should be communicated immediately to BE&C.
Most routine government dealings can be handled by the employee responsible for such matters. However, if the employee believes that a routine audit may evolve into a more formal government investigation, the BE&C should be contacted.
Employees who fail to cooperate or who obstruct these investigations are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
Any government investigation related to EHS issues should also involve EHSQ department.
Reference Document: Business Ethics Committee Charter
AUDITS (EXTERNAL, INTERNAL
& GOVERNMENT)
Consistent with ENOC internal controls and audit requirements, its auditors will conduct objective, independent examinations, taking into account high level of business ethics, integrity and honest dealings required of ENOC and its employees.
A strong audit effort helps assure compliance with established policies, procedures and controls as well as assists in identifying potential deficiencies so that they may be promptly corrected.
FRAUD & THEFT
False or misleading statements to auditors, whether internal or external, are totally unacceptable since full cooperation with auditors is the responsibility of all employees.
No member of management or any other employee may interfere with or hinder the audit process.
Reference Document:Internal Audit Charter (Internal Audit roles and responsibilities)
WHISTLEBLOWING
Whistleblowing is relevant to all organizations as every corporate entity faces the risk of things going wrong internally. Where such a risk arises, usually the first people to realize or suspect the wrongdoing will be those who work in or with the organization.
ENOC expects its employees to raise the matter when it is just a concern. The Whistleblowing Policy
(herein after ‘the policy’) provides a procedure for recording and addressing whistleblower complaints.
The objective of the policy is to:
Encourage employees to bring ethical and legal violations they are aware of, to an internal authority so that action can be taken immediately to resolve the problem
Minimize the organization’s exposure to the damage that can occur when employees circumvent internal mechanisms and controls
Enable staff to raise genuine concerns about such malpractice at an early stage
Let employees know the organization is serious about adherence to the Code
Reference Documents: Fraud Management Policy, Business Ethics Committee Charter and Whistleblowing Policy
ENOC employees work hard to utilize and maintain the assets made available to them. Assets include money, equipment, technology and information.
These are all highly valuable and are to be safeguarded and used only to pursue ENOC’s business objectives. All assets must be protected against theft, loss or abuse. Protection of ENOC’s assets is the responsibility of each employee.
All reported incidents to BEC of fraud, theft or other improper acts will be promptly investigated, and where appropriate, those responsible will be prosecuted.
Reference Documents: Fraud Management Policy, Business Ethics Committee Charter and Whistleblowing Policy
 
 


EQUATE Petrochemical Company
Region: Asian-Pacific Group
Country: Kuwait
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

EQUATE Petrochemical Company
Code of Business Conduct
Introduction
EQUATE Petrochemical Company is committed to conducting business ethically and legally throughout its organization. EQUATE’s people are expected to uphold the highest ethical and business standards no matter where in the world business takes them, even if maintaining high ethical standards results in a loss of business. This Code of Business Conduct (COBC or Code) summarizes our values and many of the ethical principles and policies that EQUATE has developed to assist in conducting business around the world. We expect the suppliers and contractors with whom we do business to embrace similar values and standards.
Throughout this document, “EQUATE” or the “Company” refers to EQUATE Petrochemical Company and its affiliates that adopt the Code.
All employees are expected to be familiar with the Code and apply it in the daily performance of their responsibilities. The Code is also applicable to EQUATE non-management directors in their capacities as members of the Board, Dow secondees, or EQUATE employees working abroad. Employees who violate this Code are subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge from employment and may be subject to civil and/or criminal action.
In the rare circumstance where a waiver of the Code would be appropriate, such waiver must be approved by the Board of Directors of EQUATE Petrochemical Company or a committee of the Board.
Ethics and Compliance Policy
EQUATE’s policy is to be lawful, highly principled and socially responsible in all of its business practices. EQUATE expects each employee to learn and comply with all Company policies and laws applicable to their job and to adhere to the guiding principles outlined in the Code.
EQUATE Values
EQUATE values are the foundation of the Code. Each Value is an integral part of EQUATE‘s standard of ethical practices, and should influence every action we take.

Integrity
We believe our promise is our most vital product - our word is our bond. The relationships that are critical to our success depend entirely on maintaining the highest ethical and moral standards around the world. As a vital measure of integrity, we will ensure the health and safety of our communities, and protect the environment in all we do.
Respect for People
We believe in the inherent worth of all people. We, the employees of EQUATE, are the engine of value creation; our imagination, determination, and dedication are essential to growth. We will work to celebrate and reward the unique backgrounds, viewpoints, skills, and talents of everyone at EQUATE. Respect for people is measured by how we treat each other, by the contributions that come from our diversity, by the productivity of our relationships, and by a job well done, no matter what the job.
Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Respect in the Workplace
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
At EQUATE, we recognize value and leverage our differences for competitive advantage. It is a key to our success.
We encourage a culture of mutual respect in which everyone understands and values the similarities and differences among our employees, customers, communities and other stakeholders. We work to provide an atmosphere that encourages positive interaction and creativity among all employees.
EQUATE attracts and hires talented and motivated people who wish to excel. We provide equal access to the best jobs for people who are willing to compete, and provide equal employment in conformance with all applicable laws and regulations to individuals who are qualified to perform a particular job. We administer our personnel policies, programs and practices in a nondiscriminatory manner in all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, development, work assignment, promotion, transfer, termination, benefits and salary administration.
Respect and Responsibility
It is EQUATE’s policy to provide all employees with a healthy positive environment of mutual respect that is free from any form of harassment including sexual harassment and discrimination. Harassment and discrimination of any form, including verbal, physical or visual, is not acceptable and will not be tolerated.
It is never acceptable to make statements or engage in conduct that is degrading, offensive, humiliating or intimidating. Even small, apparently innocent actions can create an environment that may be offensive to others.
Actions or behaviors that violate EQUATE’s policies are not always overt or deliberate. In some cases, harassment and discrimination can be subtle and difficult to identify. Be alert to your own behavior. Understand that certain, apparently harmless, actions may still have a negative impact on other individuals and on the overall atmosphere at EQUATE.
If you believe you are being harassed, treated in a discriminatory fashion or in any other way that violates this code, we encourage you to follow the reporting methods as described at the end of this Code.
Business Attire and Appearance
It is important for all employees to present a professional image while at work. Employees are expected to maintain acceptable standards of personal grooming and present a neat and professional appearance at all times.
Direct leaders are responsible for monitoring and maintaining the appropriate business appearance in their department. Violations of appropriate business attire are to be reported to HR Labor Relations.
Labor/Human Rights
EQUATE believes that respect for the dignity, rights and ambitions of all people is a cornerstone of the business. This policy extends to every EQUATE employee and to all people who work at any of EQUATE’s facilities around the world. We expect the suppliers and contractors with whom we do business to embrace similar values and standards.
EQUATE recognizes and respects all labor and employment laws - including those respecting freedom of association, privacy and equal employment opportunity subject to the laws - wherever it operates.
Environment, Health and Safety
Protection of the Environment
Protecting people and the environment is key to our commitment to EQUATE ’s Vision and Values. It is part of everything we do and every decision we make. Each employee and officer is responsible to ensure that our products and operations meet applicable government and EQUATE standards, whichever is more stringent.
EQUATE ’s aim for the “highest level of Safety & Clean environment” Vision drives all of our Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) activities. EQUATE’s goal is to eliminate all injuries and illnesses, prevent adverse environmental impacts, reduce waste and emissions, and promote resource conservation at every stage of the life cycle of our products. EQUATE reports its progress and is responsive to the public.
EQUATE expects all employees to be familiar with environmental, health and safety laws, and EQUATE policies applicable to their area of business. Seek advice from your EH&S subject matter expert or EQUATE’s lawyer to clarify how these laws apply to your job.
Workplace Health and Safety
EQUATE ’s health and safety rules and procedures are designed to provide a safe and healthy work environment and meet applicable health and safety laws. Maintaining a safe and healthy work environment relies heavily on the choices and behavior of individuals. Each of us must be aware of the rules and procedures that apply to our workplace, diligently follow the rules, and encourage others to do the same. Immediately report any unsafe situations or acts to the designated EH&S coordinator.
Substance Abuse in the Workplace
EQUATE is committed to a working environment free of substance abuse. Such an environment safeguards the health, safety and security of our employees, our operations and all people who come into contact with our workplaces and property. Substance abuse negatively affects productivity, attendance and on-the-job safety.
The unlawful use, possession, sale, conveyance, distribution, concealment, transportation or manufacture of illegal drugs, intoxicants, controlled substances or drug paraphernalia on EQUATE premises, in EQUATE owned and contracted vehicles, whether at work or while conducting EQUATE business off Company premises, is prohibited.
An employee who reports to work under the influence of, or is not fit to work because of, the effects of alcohol or drugs is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge from employment consistent with the requirements of local law. EQUATE reserves the right to search items on Company property, including but not limited to offices, desks, computers, cars, and lockers at any time, to the fullest extent permitted by local law.
Violence in the Workplace
To preserve employee safety and security, weapons, firearms, ammunition, explosives and incendiary devices are forbidden on Company premises or in Company vehicles. In addition, EQUATE will not tolerate acts or threats of violence, including extreme or inappropriate verbal or physical threats, intimidation or coercion. We encourage you to report the behaviors that threaten the safety of people or property or have the potential to become violent to the designated EH&S coordinator, Emergency Safety & Security (ES&S) personnel or EH&S Leader.
Financial Integrity
The Company relies on accounting records to produce reports for the Board of Directors, management, shareholders, creditors, governmental agencies and others. The records must accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. All actions and commitments must be taken according to the Authorization Policy and written delegations of authority.
Books and Records
Each EQUATE employee must ensure that no false or intentionally misleading entries are made in the Company’s accounting records. Intentional misclassification of transactions regarding accounts, departments, or accounting periods violate the law and the Code. All transactions must be supported by accurate documentation in reasonable detail, recorded in the proper account and in the proper accounting period.
If any employee of EQUATE has concerns or complaints regarding questionable accounting, auditing or other financial records, he/she is expected to promptly report through the reporting methods as described at the end of this Code.
All employees are expected to demonstrate financial integrity in processing Business Expense Forms, Requisitions for Payment, using company credit cards and other financial transactions. Cash or other assets must not be maintained in any unrecorded or “off-the-books” fund for any purpose.
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the Company’s system of internal control is required at all times. Proper justification is required when alternative accounting treatment is possible under IFRS or GAAP.
Questionable Payments
It is against EQUATE policy to make unlawful, improper or other kinds of questionable payments to customers, government employees or officials, or other parties. We do business and sell our products on the merits of price, quality and service.
We will not offer bribes or any other kind of payment or benefit to representatives of customers, suppliers, competitors, government or governmental agencies. This applies to any individual or organization at any level, within or outside of the State of Kuwait. We expect our employees to refuse to make questionable payments. In cases where the propriety of a payment is not clear, or the alternatives might be harmful to the Company or employee, the matter should be approved in advance by EQUATE Management Team (EMT) in consultation with Company lawyer. Our policy on questionable payments includes not only direct actions of EQUATE employees, but also forbids indirect actions by agents, distributors, representatives, joint venture partners, or third parties acting on EQUATE’s behalf.
Accurate Company Records
Laws and regulations require EQUATE’s records to accurately reflect the events they represent. Falsifying business records is a serious offense that may result in criminal prosecution, civil action and/or disciplinary action up to and including discharge from employment. Always record data in a timely and accurate manner. This protects EQUATE’s resources and meets the expectations of people who rely on the accuracy of our records to perform their jobs.
If any individual has concerns or complaints regarding the accuracy of Company records including intellectual property, he or she can report these concerns by following any of the reporting methods listed at the end this Code.
Conﬂicts of Interest
Conflicts of interest are in clear opposition to EQUATE’s integrity. Each employee is expected to act in the best interests of the Company and to protect EQUATE’s reputation. We should also be sensitive to even the appearance of a conflict. This means that employees should avoid any investment, interest, association or activity that may cause others to doubt their or the Company’s fairness or integrity, or that may interfere with their ability to perform job duties dispassionately and effectively. Many potential conflicts of interest can be prevented or remedied by making full disclosure of the situation. All EQUATE employees are responsible to ensure that EQUATE’s interests are protected from conflicts of interest.
Some activities that could represent conflicts of interest:
    Having stock or other ownership or ﬁnancial interest in a company doing business with
EQUATE;
    Serving as a board member, or acting as a director, ofﬁcer or employee of any non-afﬁliated
business or entity with which EQUATE does business;
    Directing a business opportunity from EQUATE for your personal interest;
    Holding a second job that interferes with your ability to perform your regular job;
    Hiring a supplier, distributor or other agent managed or owned by yourself, or owned by a
relative or a close friend;
    Accepting, directly or indirectly, from any vendor or supplier of services , any vacations, cash payment, service, loan (except from financial institutions) or discount (except those offered generally to EQUATE employees) or other items reasonably seen to be inducements by you or any of your relatives of the first or second degree;
    Using EQUATE’s assets (such as stationary, letterheads, funds, facilities, equipment, tools, personnel, job-related know-how and others) for the benefit of other businesses or personal interests; and
    Engaging in outside activities that may adversely affect impartiality or judgment or that may
interfere with or adversely affect ability to perform official duties.
Outside Interests
If an EQUATE employee, a member of his or her family of the first or second degree (spouse, sibling, parent, child, uncle, aunt, grandparent or grandchild), or a close friend has a financial or other interest in a customer, competitor, or supplier’s firm, that interest can impact the ability to make impartial decisions on behalf of EQUATE. Employees are prohibited from personally taking an opportunity for business or profit that belongs to EQUATE, or competing with the Company in any way. Employees are expected to disclose any actual or potential conflicting interests of this nature by using any of the reporting methods identified at the end of this Code by providing names of the person being reported and his/her relatives.
Gifts and Entertainment
EQUATE selects products and services on the basis of price, quality and benefit. We expect our customers to purchase our products and services on the same basis. All business transactions should be impartial, objective and free of outside influence.
Modest gifts, favors and entertainment are often used to strengthen business relationships. However, no gift, favor or entertainment should be accepted or given if it obligates, or appears to obligate, the recipient, or if it might be perceived as an attempt to influence fair judgment.
Never give or accept cash or its equivalent in connection with a business transaction. Never promise or make loans or investments of any kind without first fully complying with the Authorization Policy and applicable record keeping requirements.
No employee or family member, agent or agent’s family member should offer, accept or receive a gift or entertainment from customers or suppliers if it:
    Is in cash or in the form of a gift voucher exchangeable for cash;
    Is not consistent with customary business practices;
    Is extravagant in value (Valued at or exceeds 120 Kuwaiti Dinars or its equivalent);
    Can be construed as a kickback, bribe or payoff in violation of any applicable laws; including
a bribe to a government official;
    Could cause embarrassment to or discredit the Company if disclosed.
When doing business with government agents, employees or officials, be sure you understand applicable laws as well as local customs and norms.
EQUATE’s responsibility to conduct its business ethically extends to its customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors and regulators.
Obligations to customers, competitors and regulators
Competition, Antitrust and Fair Trade
EQUATE is committed to free, fair and open business competition, and is equally committed to competing ethically and in compliance with laws that foster competition in the marketplace.
EQUATE advertises and promotes its products and services in a factual, honest and informative way.
Kuwait has antitrust and trade laws that demand free and fair competition. EQUATE employees, will not have discussions or reach agreements, whether formal or informal, written or unwritten, with competitors, or others, which restrict and can restrict free and open competition. This includes discussing or making agreements with competitors about: prices or credit terms, submission of bids or offers, allocation of markets or customers, restrictions on production or distribution, or boycotts of suppliers or customers. Antitrust offenses do not have to involve anything in writing; even the appearance of an understanding with a competitor is sufficient and may bring serious penalties.
Violations of antitrust laws, either deliberate or accidental, expose EQUATE and individual employees, officers and directors to serious civil or criminal penalties or lawsuits. For any issues concerning antitrust compliance, we encourage you to use any of the reporting methods listed at the end of this Code.
Gathering Competitive Information
EQUATE expects employees to use publicly available information including published articles, market analyses and reports when obtaining competitive information about products, services, and prices. Employees should not seek a competitor’s confidential information or accept anyone’s confidential information without the owner’s consent. In no case will EQUATE use illegal - theft, bribery, misrepresentation or espionage through electronic devices - or unethical business means to obtain competitive information.
For any issues concerning competitive information, we encourage you to use any of the reporting methods listed at the end of this Code.
Computer Systems and Telecommunication Security Policy
EQUATE relies on computer systems and telecommunications to meet our operational, financial, and informational requirements. It is essential that those systems be protected from misuse. The application/data owner(s) and Information Systems share responsibility for such protection.
All employees, officers, and directors are required to be familiar with and follow the EQUATE IT Policies.
We encourage all employees to use any of the reporting methods listed at the end of this Code for all issues concerning the use of computers and telecommunication systems.
Use of Company Resources
EQUATE’s resources are primarily intended for business use. Employees may occasionally use Company resources, such as a copy machine, computers, Internet access, telephone, or e-mail, for personal use. Personal use of Company resources on an occasional and limited basis is acceptable as long as EQUATE ’s Information Systems and other policies are followed, there are no measurable increased costs, and co-workers are not distracted by the use.
Information Systems and Data
Computers and all information on EQUATE computers, as well as any EQUATE information on your home computer or other device, are Company property. Use licensed software or documentation according to licensing agreements and do not duplicate it without expressed permission. Protect any passwords that provide access to Company networks. You are responsible for what you say in an e-mail message. Do not use your EQUATE title or contact information for personal mail, e-mail or anything other than Company business unless you have specific permissions to do so.
Each employee, officer and director must ensure that their use of EQUATE information systems, networks and tools meet EQUATE standards and policies, including IT policies, security and data protection requirements, import/export regulations and local legal requirements.
Safeguarding Important Information
EQUATE ’s records, files, data, and technical information are critical to our success. We must all work to ensure that Company information is appropriately protected at all times.

Conﬁdential Information
Confidential information includes trade secrets, proprietary know-how, personnel records, business plans and proposals, capacity and production information, marketing or sales forecasts and strategies, client and customer lists, pricing lists or strategies, construction plans, supplier data, business leads, research and development (R&D) information, as well as financial and company performance data.
EQUATE employees are responsible for protecting all confidential information. EQUATE information is for Company business use only. Disclose it only to those people with a legitimate business need when it serves EQUATE’s interests. Do not discuss such information with people outside EQUATE, including family members. Do not leave confidential records or documents in places where others may read them. Do not discuss or work with EQUATE data in public areas where the conversation may be overheard or the data compromised.
We respect the trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, and patent rights of others. Unless authorized by the owner, or if the use is an otherwise permitted use under the law, copying of such material may violate the law and the Code.
Do not disclose any previous employer’s confidential information without written consent of that employer. Employees leaving EQUATE will also have a continuing obligation to protect EQUATE’s confidential information.
Improper receipt of others’ confidential information may expose EQUATE to potential legal liabilities. Improper disclosure of Company confidential information may result in the loss of valuable intellectual property rights. Do not ask for or disclose information that should remain private. This applies to Company information as well as to information that belongs to another entity, such as customers, suppliers or competitors.
Data Privacy
Data privacy addresses the protection of personal data, which is any information that directly or indirectly identifies a natural person. Examples of personal data include personal, employment, medical, financial and educational and training information. All employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with the data privacy requirements under the laws and regulations of the respective countries and under the Company guidelines/policies. Employees are expected to be familiar with the relevant policies and procedures.
Inside Information and Trading
Sometimes employees have information about EQUATE, its subsidiaries or affiliates, or about a company with which EQUATE does business that is not known to the investing public. Such inside information may relate to plans, new products or processes, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of entities, businesses or securities, problems, sales, profitability, negotiations relating to significant contracts or business relationships with others, significant litigation, or other financial information. It is important to understand that any individual working at EQUATE may acquire inside information and be subject to the following restrictions.
If the inside information is material - that is, if a reasonable investor would consider the fact important in reaching an investment decision - then the individual should not buy or sell EQUATE securities or securities of companies associated with EQUATE based on insider information nor provide such information to others, until such information becomes public. Further, individuals should not buy or sell securities in any other company about which they have material non-public inside information gained as a result of their EQUATE work or otherwise, nor provide such inside information to others, until such information becomes public. Insider trading also includes “tipping” or telling others about insider information. If any person buys or sells securities based on an EQUATE employee’s tip, such employee can be guilty of insider trading even if he/ she himself/herself does not trade.
Records Management
Records and information are important assets of the Company. They are vital components of our decision-making and operational processes and must be properly managed to obtain and preserve their full value. Each day you generate or are entrusted with these assets - assets required to conduct EQUATE business. Mismanaging or even deliberately or inadvertently releasing these assets could provide others a business advantage, cause harm to EQUATE or EQUATE ’s public image, or create unnecessary administrative costs.
All employees are required to be familiar with the Records Management policy and schedules applicable to their work. The Company needs to maintain the credibility of the records management program and minimize records-related costs. It cannot tolerate gaps or records held beyond the established retention periods. Individual responsibility in day-to-day activities
is key to effective information and records management. Refer to the Records Management policy in ODMS 05.04.03 for more details.
Kindly use any of the reporting methods described in the last page of this document for reporting any issues related to safeguarding of important Information.
Interactions with the Public
Communications with the Public
EQUATE strives to communicate with the public in an accurate and consistent manner. To be sure that we comply with the law while still protecting our confidentiality and interests, only those who are specifically trained in particular areas and whose jobs and responsibilities include communications with the public or the media should represent EQUATE to the public or the media. All inquiries, either verbal or written, from an outside contact about a Company matter should be directed to the Corporate Communication Group or EMT.
If you express a personal view in a public forum (such as a letter to the newspaper), do not use Company letterhead or Company e-mail or provide reference to your business address or title.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Charitable Activities
EQUATE is a vital part of the communities that host our facilities. Through the office of the CEO and through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities, EQUATE participates in many sustainability, humanitarian and charitable endeavors in Kuwait. That participation ranges from cash contributions to donations of EQUATE products and other resources.
When the Company elects to participate in a community project and utilize limited employee time and Company resources, site management communicates to employees in advance that the effort is a Company sponsored project.
Be sure to separate your personal community activities from your work. Pursue community activities on your own time, with your own resources and as an individual private citizen, but not as a representative of EQUATE. Do not claim to represent, or imply representation of, the Company to the public or in any public process or forum unless specifically requested to do so by management.
The continuing development of international codes of conduct and principles governing CSR are positive indicators for redefining business accountability. EQUATE respects and supports the efforts of others in such endeavors and also recognizes that every global code of conduct and/ or CSR initiative may have a significant impact on our Company’s operations and businesses worldwide. EQUATE will continue to review and understand the implications of the initiatives in order to remain consistent, wherever possible, with those external codes.
Reporting Methods
Employees, customers, suppliers and stakeholders can always report a concern or breach without fear of reprisal, harassment or retaliation. At the same time, they can also seek advice from the Ethical Committee whenever they have a question regarding the recognition of actual or potential problems.
The following reporting methods have been set in place at EQUATE to receive any query, suggestion or concern regarding this code or to report a violation or non-compliance to this code.
    Drop boxes distributed across the plant site and ofﬁces including HQ building. The Query/
Suggestion/Concern Form is available on the main page of EQUATE Intranet.
    Telephone: (+965) 2576 - 5858, with an answering machine that would receive calls 247/.
    Email address: cobc@equate.com for inquiries, suggestions and reports about violations.
While the privacy and interests of individuals are respected, the COBC Committee will appropriately investigate any behavior that may damage the reputation of EQUATE or impact ethical business conduct. All employees must fully cooperate with any such investigation.
Non-Retaliation Policy
Employees need not be concerned about retaliation from others if and when they report what they suspect to be unethical or illegal activities. At the same time, making false accusations and giving defamatory statements, whether verbal or written, of such violation is also strictly prohibited.
EQUATE will not tolerate any reprisal or retaliation against a person who, in good faith, reports a known or suspected violation of this Code. EQUATE will take disciplinary action, up to and including discharge from employment, against any employee involved in retaliation.
Estonian Academy of Sciences
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Estonia
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics


CODE OF ETHICS OF ESTONIAN SCIENTISTS
1. General principles
1.1. The ethics in science is based on fundamental values, norms and principles,
determining the moral conduct of scientists, their responsibilities to the society
and the environment.
1.2. In his/her research work a scientist shall be guided by accepted standards of best
practice, the general concepts of which this code defines.
1.3. Scientists will hold it to their heart that the society should attach value to science.
2
1.4. Scientists will undertake to further implementation of research knowledge for the
welfare of humankind, for preservation and consolidation of the ecosystem and
for economical and sustainable use of the natural resources.
1.5. Scientists will undertake to uphold the freedom of scientific thought, to condemn
the censorship of scientific creativity and attempts to monopolise research
directions. Scientists will permit the restrictions to be imposed on dissemination
in some specific case of scientific advances.
1.6. By retaining critical mind and sound scepticism scientists will act to promote
knowledge- based decisions and to stand up against the use of unproven results
and unscientific claims, when the decisions crucial to society are being taken.
1.7. All those in science will undertake to train and develop young scientists. These
activities should not be limited to providing the technical skills necessary to
enable them to conduct their research. Training must also inculcate the core
ethical standards and norms of science, hence the mentor must pose as a moral
epitome to the young scientists, as regards the science and community.
1.8. Scientists will be morally liable for any such activity which may have a material
impact on the development of the whole humanity, environment, country or a
social institution.
2. Scientific research
2.1. Scientists will adhere to the highest professional standards while mapping and
practising research.
2.2. In every single phase of scientific research scientists must preserve integrity.
Scientists will avoid any scientific misconduct or fraud, such as fabricating or
falsifying data or records, piracy or plagiarism, sabotaging the work, records or
protocols of other scientists, breach of confidence as a reviewer or supervisor.
2.3. Scientists will remember that the scientific research is an ongoing process. They
must take critically the findings and be willing to reassess their earlier
achievements, in the face of new facts come to light.
2.4. Scientists have a duty to ensure that intellectual property arising from their work
is properly safeguarded.
2.5. Scientists will undertake, whenever possible, to ensure that the outcome of their
study is used to the best interests of the society and environment.
2.5. Scientific research involving interactions with people must not trespass on
human dignity and basic human rights. In case of such research, the individuals
will be informed about all aspects of the proposed research. Their voluntary
agreement to participate will be secured – the principle of ‘informed consent’.
Personal information obtained will be handled and kept under conditions of the
highest possible confidentiality, and information obtained will be used
exclusively for the purposes of the research.
3
3. Self-regulation in scientific community
3.1. Scientists will make every effort to build a creative atmosphere with the team,
displaying tolerance towards colleagues, wholeheartedly acclaiming their
success.
3.2. A scientist will value highly the competence and professionalism in conducting
scientific research. He/she will be frank and fair, when there is a need to give an
opinion on the lack of ability or proficiency of a colleague, in particular if that
impedes or damages the advancement of science and society. However, the
competency of a fellow scientists may be queried only provided there is a well
supported proof.
3.3. In critique, discussion and debate scientists will proceed from the equity principle
and the confidence in facts and research outcome. Scientists will not interpret the
facts arbitrarily or in pursuance of their personal interests.
3.4. Scientists will not require of their collaborators that they shoulder his/her own
assignments.
3.5. When in a superior position, scientists will apply democratic style of leadership.
3.6. When publishing research outcome of a team project all participants involved in
work will be referred to as authors; if needs be, their individual contribution will
be indicated. The practice of honorary, or “ghost” authorships is inconsistent with
theses principles and with good scientific practice.
4. Scientist as a mentor and as a student
4.1. Scientists will hold in respect both their mentors and students.
4.2. Scientists will encourage independent work of students, their unfettered and
critical thinking. Scientists will respect free expression of their opinions.
4.3. Scientists will not hinder the communication of their students with other
scientists and scientific institutions.
4.4. Scientists will view their students objectively, withholding from deprecating and
criticizing them.
5. Scientist as an expert
5.1. Scientists will act as experts only within their sphere of competence, referring to
their knowledge and experience.
5.2. Scientists will agree to act as experts only provided they can remain impartial.
5.3. Scientists will perform expert examinations honestly, impartially and with
responsibility.
5.4. Scientists will adhere to the principle of equality, when performing expert
examinations. Any discrimination on grounds of sex, race, political opinions or
cultural backgrounds will be inconsistent with these principles.
5.5. While performing expert examinations, scientists will abide by the confidentiality
principle.
4
5.6. In the course of expert examinations scientists will retain their independence and
defy coercion, when drawing and presenting conclusions.
5.7. When electing to fill research vacancies or other academic positions, scientists as
experts will objectively appraise the candidates. They shall not give preference
their students, representatives of the same school or other attendants and
associates of theirs.
5.8. When acting as opponents of a thesis scientists will be impartial. To preclude any
bias, the opponent must not have joint publications with the author of thesis.
6. Scientist and society
6.1. Scientists will commit themselves to pursuit of new knowledge and its application
for the welfare of society and environment. The information delivered to
community must be reliable, scientists will discourage presentation of unverified
data as hard facts.
6.2. Scientists will promote the spread of scientific knowledge and repulse
dissemination of pseudo-scientific theories, misconceptions and
misrepresentations.
6.3. Scientists will consider it their obligation to publish research results also in the
popular science form.
Ethics Committee, National Centre for Scientific Research (France)
Region: WEOG
Country: France
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

MONTREAL STATEMENT ON RESEARCH INTEGRITY IN CROSSBOUNDARY
RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS
Responsibilities of Individual and Institutional Partners in Cross-Boundary Research
Collaborations. Overall Collaborative Responsibilities
Integrity. Collaborating partners should take collective responsibility for the trustworthiness of the collaborative
research.
Trust.The behavior of all collaborating partners should be worthy of the trust of all other partners. Responsibility for
establishing and maintaining this level of trust lies with all collaborating partners.
Purpose. Collaborative research should be initiated and conducted for purposes that advance knowledge for the
good of society.
Goals. Collaborating partners should agree at the outset on the goals of the research. Changes in goals should be
negotiated and agreed to by all partners.
Responsibilities in Establishing and Managing the Collaboration
Benefits and Costs. The benefits and costs of collaborative research should be distributed fairly among
collaborating partners.
Agreements. Agreements that govern all research should be understood and ratified by all collaborating partners.
Agreements that unduly or unnecessarily restrict dissemination of data, findings or other research products should be
avoided.
Transparency. Collaborative research should be conducted and disseminated transparently and honestly, with as
much openness as possible under existing agreements.
53 http://www.wcri2013.org/Montreal_Statement_f.shtml. Projet de déclaration. Juin 2013
- 39 -
Compliance with Laws, Policies and Regulations. The collaboration as a whole should be in compliance with all
laws, policies and regulations to which it is subject. Collaborating partners should promptly and openly determine
how to address conflicting laws, policies or regulations that apply to the research.
Communication. Collaborating partners should communicate with each other as frequently and openly as necessary
to foster full, mutual understanding of the research.
Resource Management. Collaborating partners should use human, financial and other resources appropriately and
fairly.
Monitoring. Collaborating partners should monitor the progress of research projects to foster the integrity and timely
completion and dissemination of the work.
Responsibilities in Collaborative Relationships
Roles and Responsibilities. Collaborating partners should come to mutual understandings about their roles and
responsibilities in the planning, conduct and dissemination of research projects. Such understandings should be
renegotiated when roles or responsibilities change.
Customary Practices and Assumptions. Collaborating partners should openly discuss their customary practices
and assumptions related to the research. Diversity of perspectives, expertise and methods, and differences in
customary practices and assumptions that may compromise the integrity of the research should be addressed
openly.
Conflict. Collaborating partners should seek prompt resolution of conflicts, disagreements and misunderstandings,
at the individual or institutional level, as necessary.
Authority of Representation. Collaborating partners should come to agreement on who has authority to speak on
behalf of the collaboration.
Recognition of Junior Partners. The contributions of junior partners in research collaborations should receive full
and appropriate recognition.
Responsibilities for Outcomes of Collaborative Research
Data, Intellectual Property and Research Records. Collaborating partners should come to agreement at the outset
on the use, management and ownership of data, intellectual property, and research records.
Publication. Collaborating partners should come to agreement at the outset on how publication and other
dissemination decisions will be made, including what will be published, when it will be published, and where it will be
published.
Authorship and Acknowledgement. Collaborating partners should come to agreement at the outset on standards
for authorship and acknowledgement of joint research products. Publications and other products should state the
contributions of all contributing parties.
Accountability. Collaborating partners should be accountable to each other and to funders in the accomplishment of
the research.

Ethiopian Society of Chemical Engineers (ESChE)
Region: African Group
Country: Ethiopia
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Fundamental Principles
❶ Using knowledge and skill for the enhancement of 
human welfare; 
❷ Being honest and impartial, and servicing with fidelity 
the public, their employers and clients; 
❸ Striving to increase the competence and prestige of 
the engineering profession; and 
❹ Supporting the professional and technical societies of 
their disciplines. 1/29/2014

Holy Grill
As engineering practitioners, we use our
knowledge and skills for the benefit of the
community to create engineering solutions for a
sustainable future. In doing so, we strive to serve
the community ahead of other personal or
sectional interests.

Guidelines on Professional Conduct
 Demonstrate integrity
 Practice competently
 Exercise leadership
 Promote sustainability

 Demonstrate Integrity
1. Act on the basis of a well-informed conscience
2. Be honest and trustworthy
3. Respect the dignity of all persons

 Practice competently
1. Maintain and develop knowledge and skills
2. Represent areas of competence objectively
3. Act on the basis of adequate knowledge1/29/2014

 Exercise leadership
1. Uphold the reputation and trustworthiness of 
the practice of engineering 
2. Support and encourage diversity
3. Communicate honestly and effectively, taking 
into account the reliance of others on 
engineering expertise

 Promote Sustainability

1. Engage responsibly with the community and 
other stakeholders
2. Practice engineering to foster the health, 
safety and wellbeing of the community and the 
environment 
3. Balance the needs of the present with the 
needs of future generations
EuroChem Mineral & Chemical Company Code of Conduct
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Russia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

APPROVED
by the General Shareholders Meeting of EuroChem Mineral & Chemical Company, OJSC Minutes dated 27 June 2006
Code
of Corporate    Conduct
EuroChem Mineral & Chemical Company, OJSC
Moscow 2006
1.  GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1.    This Code of Corporate Conduct (“Code”) has been drawn up in accordance with the law of the Russian Federation, universally recognized principles of corporate conduct, and the terms of operation of EuroChem Mineral and Chemical Company, OJSC ("Company").
1.2.    This Code is a collection of obligations undertaken by the shareholders, the members of the Board of Directors, executive management, and the managers of the Company relating to the formation of a balanced system of their relations with employees, subsidiaries and dependent companies, consumers, counter parties, creditors, government agencies and the public as a whole.
1.3.    The Company strives to continually improve its corporate governance systems within its subsidiaries and dependent companies, ensure openness and transparency in their operations, instill in them the fundamental principles  of this Code, and ensure that the  rights  of minority shareholders  in said companies are protected and upheld.

2.  THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEM STRUCTURE

2.1.    The Company’s highest management body is the General Shareholders Meeting (GM). The main authorities of Company management are to be delegated by the shareholders to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will appoint the Company's General Director and Management Board in an effort to support the day-to-day management of the Company.
2.2.    The terms of reference of the Company's bodies of management are to comply with the requirements set out in legislation and approved in the Charter and the Company’s other internal regulatory documents.

3.  COMPANY SHARHOLDERS

3.1.    The Board of Directors, Management Board and the Company's General Director must uphold and protect all shareholder rights.
3.2.    Shareholders have the right to reliable methods of registering ownership rights to shares. Maintenance and storage of the shareholder register is to be carried out by an independent registrar that possesses the appropriate technical means and a control system, as well as an impeccable reputation on the securities market.
3.3.    Shareholders have the right to receive regular and timely information about the Company's operations in the volume needed in order to make rational decisions. The Company undertakes to continuously improve upon information disclosure procedures using advanced Russian and international experience and by introducing systems and formats for reports which meet the requirements of regulatory bodies, the wishes of shareholders, and external users.
3.4.    Shareholders may receive a portion of the Company’s net profits in the form of dividends based on the results of the first quarter, half-year results, the first nine months of the fiscal year and/or the results of the fiscal year in line with the Company's Dividend Policy.
3.5.    Company Shareholders are liable to each other, to the Company and to other stakeholders for the Company's long-term stability and profitability.
3.6.    Shareholders must not take any actions which could undermine the Company's long-term profitability, and they must not exert any pressure on the Company's bodies of management, disclose information relating to state or commercial secrets, or abuse the rights granted them.
3.7.    Shareholder actions that are taken exclusively with the intent of causing harm to other shareholders or the Company will not be permitted. The Company deems it unacceptable to create mechanisms that may allow individual shareholders to gain a level of control incommensurate with his or her stake in the Company's charter capital.

4.  THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

4.1.    The Board of Directors determines the priorities of the Company's operations and approves promising plans for achieving those priorities; it also approves the Company's development strategies, exercises control over the implementation of the development strategies, and evaluates the effectiveness thereof.
4.2.    The Board of Directors shall be governed in its actions by the Charter and the Company's other internal regulatory documents.
4.3.    Board of Directors Structure
4.3.1.  The Board of Directors is led by the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
 

4.3.2.  The Chairman of the Board of Directors organizes the Board’s work, ensures the effective organization of the Board and the Board Committees, and discharges other functions as envisaged in current law and the Company’s internal regulatory documents.
4.3.3.  The number of members to sit on the Board of Directors is to be determined by a ruling passed by a General Meeting of Shareholders (GM) and must ensure the efficiency of drawing up rulings while taking into account a variety of perspectives.
4.3.4.  In order to ensure the objectivity of the decisions that it takes, the Board’s membership must include independent directors.
4.3.5.  A member of the Board of Directors must perform his functions honestly and responsibility in the interest of the Company and the shareholders. The rights and responsibilities of a Board member are set out in the Charter and the Company's internal regulatory documents.
4.3.6.  The procedures for electing a director to sit on the Board of Directors, as well as procedures for organizing the Board’s activities, are to be set out in the Company's Board of Directors Regulations, which are approved by a GM. Decisions about the amount of remuneration to be paid to a member of the Board of Directors are to be taken by a GM.
4.3.7.  The Company adheres to the principles of disclosing information about the remuneration of members of the Board of Directors as recommended by the Code of Corporate Conduct and the laws and statutory acts of the Russian Federation.
4.4.    The Board Committees
4.4.1.  Committees will be established under the Board of Directors for preliminary consideration of the most important issues referred to the Board of Directors.
4.4.2.  The Board Committees shall be governed in their actions by their respective Regulations as approved by the Board of Directors, and the members of the Board Committees shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
4.4.3.  The Strategy Committee will prepare recommendations for the Board of Directors on the Company's strategic goals, long-term programs, strategic development plans, determining the strategies for collaborative issues, setting up the business plan, investment plan and budgets as well as the dividend policy.
4.4.4.  The Corporate Governance and Personnel Committee under the Board of Directors will prepare a competitive (compared to peer organizations) incentives system, a system for Board member evaluation and remuneration, in addition to systems for the evaluation and remuneration of members of the Revision Commission, the General Director, the members of the Management Board and other key members of upper management. The Committee will also review issues concerning the functionality and improvement of the Company's corporate governance system.
4.4.5.  The Audit Committee under the Board of Directors reviews issues concerning the Company's financial reports, the functioning of the internal control system and risk management within the Company. It will work together with the independent external auditor, the Company's divisions and departments involved in the internal audit process, the Revision Commission including when analyzing reports issued by these bodies and it will review issues concerning valuation of the Company's assets.
4.4.6.  The Board Committee recommendations are not mandatory for the Company's Board of Directors, Management Board or the General Director.

5.  THE MANAGEMENT BOARD AND GENERAL DIRECTOR

5.1.    In line with the Company Charter, Management Board and the General Director are to be elected by the Board of Directors.
5.2.    The General Director’s duties will include serving as the Chairman of the Management Board.
5.3.    The Management Board and the General Director are to act in the interests of the Company, upholding their rights and performing their responsibilities to the Company conscientiously and with reason. They shall be held liable to the shareholders and the Board of Directors in line with Russian federal law.
5.4.    The Management Board and General Director manage the day-to-day operations of the Company and ensure its long-term profitability and efficiency.
5.5.    The Management Board will submit management proposals on priority issues to the Board of Directors for review or approval; issues may include promising and strategic plans,  annual budgets,  investment projects and investment policies, as well as work with subsidiaries and dependent companies.
5.6.    The Management Board reviews and approves the following:
 

   the system of quarterly and monthly performance reviews of the Company as well as its subsidiaries and dependent companies;
   major investment projects (within the annual investment limit approved by the Board of Directors);
   parameters for the Company's organizational structure, and that of the Company's subsidiaries and dependent companies;
   the total amounts of employee year-end bonuses (inline with the payroll fund approved by the Board of Directors).
5.7.    The General Director will submit reports on the Company’s financial results to the Board of Directors for review.
5.8.    The system for incentives, performance review and remuneration for the General Director and members of the Management Board (and other key members of executive management) is to be approved by the Board of Directors.
5.9.    The procedures for electing the members of the Management Board and the terms of reference of the Management Board are set out in the Management Board Regulations, which are approved by a GM.
5.10.   The procedures for electing the General Director and the terms of reference of the General Director are set out in the General Director Regulations, which are approved by a GM.

6.  THE CORPORATE SECRETARY

6.1.    The Corporate Secretary ensures that the Company's management bodies and employees comply with the requirements and procedures which guarantee and uphold the rights and interests of the shareholders and which ensure that the Board of Directors works effectively.
6.2.    The Corporate Secretary’s responsibilities include:
   preparing and conducting General Shareholder Meetings (GMs) in accordance with the requirements set out in current Russian federal law, the Company's Charter and other internal regulatory documents based on the corresponding ruling to hold a GM;
   organizing, preparing and convening meetings of the Board of Directors in accordance with the requirements of the Russian federal law, the Company Charter and other internal regulatory documents;
   providing assistance to members of the Board of Directors as they perform their functions;
   ensuring disclosure (submission) of information about the Company and storage of documents of GMs and Board meetings in line with the requirements in the Company's internal regulatory documents;
   submitting information about the rulings passed by GMs and the Board of Directors in line with the Company's internal regulatory documents;
   organizing the appropriate review by the Company of shareholder requests and resolving conflicts related to the violation of shareholder rights.
6.3.    The Board of Directors, the Management Board, the General Director, the Revision Commission and Company employees must assist the Corporate Secretary in discharging her functions. The Corporate Secretary will inform the Chairman of the Board of Directors of any information, events or circumstances hindering compliance with procedures that fall within the Corporate Secretary’s terms of reference.
6.4.    The Corporate Secretary is appointed by the Board of Directors and reports directly to the Board of Directors.

7.  LIABILITY IN RELATIONS WITH EMPLOYEES, SUBSIDIARIES, DEPENDENT COMPANIES AND GOVERNMENT BODIES

7.1.    The relations of the Company and its employees are regulated by current Russian federal labor laws, the Company's internal regulatory documents and employment contracts with the Company.
7.2.    The Company implements its HR policy which encourages the professional development and growth of employees and is aimed at ensuring labor safety and protecting employee health.
7.3.    The Company's relations with subsidiaries and dependent companies, as well as with the shareholders of said companies, are aimed at increasing overall capitalization.
7.4.    The Board of Directors, the Management Board and the General Director must contribute to the systemic creation of an efficient management system at subsidiaries and dependent companies, ensuring improved profitability and the reduction of the Company's investment risks.
7.5.    The  Company  will  ensure  that  all  finished  product  consumer  quality  requirements  are  met  and
continuously strive to improve the management system.
7.6.    The Company strives to build mutually beneficial relations with its counter parties on a long-term and sustainable basis.
7.7.    The Company will ensure the development of procedures for the responsible selection of counter parties supplying raw materials, equipment, and other materials as well as counter parties rendering services to the Company, based on competitive bidding in line with current laws.
7.8.    The Company adheres to principles of absolute transparently and compliance with legal requirements in its relations with government bodies.
7.9.    The Company undertakes to take a proactive stance in protecting the environment in line with the Russian Federation’s environmental laws and international requirements, and given opportunities to do so, invest in new technologies which will help improve environmental protection and energy conservation.

8.  INFORMATION DISCLOSURE

8.1.    The Company recognizes the importance of providing shareholders and other stakeholders with reliable and objective information about the Company. The Company's actions related to corporate changes, including changes in the rights of shareholders or creditors (major corporate events) must be carried out with maximum openness and transparency.
8.2.    The key principles for information disclosure are: regularity, completeness, timeliness, objectivity and accuracy of the information about the Company and ensuring access thereto.
8.3.    The goal of information disclosure is to provide all stakeholders with the necessary information for making sound decisions concerning participation in the Company or taking other actions which may influence the Company's financial and business operations.
8.4.    Prompt and precise information disclosure on all issues concerning the Company's operations will be carried out via meeting the requirements of Russian federal law and voluntary disclosure of additional information in line with the Company's Information Policy.
8.5.    The information disclosure process will ensure protection of commercial secrets and information which is deemed confidential. The criteria for deeming information confidential and the procedures for granting access to confidential information are to be determined by the Board of Directors.

9.  CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS

9.1.    The control system for financial and business operations is aimed at protecting shareholder assets and the assets of the Company as well as ensuring investor trust in the Company and the Company's bodies of management.
9.2.    Control over financial and business operations is to be performed by the Board of Directors (including with assistance from the Board Committees), the Revision Commission, the Internal Audit Service and the Company's independent auditor.
9.3.    The Company's General Director is responsible for the smooth functioning of the Company's internal control system.
9.4.    The internal control system is a set of procedures performed by the Board of Directors (the Audit Committee) and carried out by executive management, the Company officers and other employees, aimed at improving Company operations and management and ensuring strong performance and effectiveness of the Company's financial and business operations. It also aims to safeguard assets, prevent internal and external risks, ensure reliability and accuracy for all types of Company reports, compliance with legal requirements and the Company’s internal regulatory documents and rules.
9.5.    The activities and the terms of reference of the Revision Commission are governed by current Russian federal law and the Company's Revision Commission Regulations. The Revision Commission will not be dependent on the opinions or instructions of the Company management and shall act independently. The Revision Commission reports the results of its inspections and audits in statements which are to be submitted to the Board of Directors and the shareholders.
9.6.    The Internal Audit Service will conduct an objective and independent evaluation of the risk management system, the internal control system and the corporate governance system in order to ensure effective risk management, reliability and efficiency in the internal control system, and the completeness and integrity of financial and management information, as well as compliance of the Company's production and business operations with the law. The Internal Audit Service is to report to the Audit Committee under the Board of Directors with regard to performing its functions, and will report to the General Director for all administrative issues.
9.7.    The independent auditor is to be appointed by a GM based on recommendations from the Board of Directors prepared based on the results of competitive bidding and in line with current law. In the competitive bidding process, the opinion of the Audit Committee with regard to professional qualities, business reputation and independent status will be taken into account.
9.8.    The independent auditor will conduct an evaluation of financial reports prepared in line with RAS and in line with IFRS and will report its opinion on the reviewed financial reports to the Board of Directors.
9.9.    The independent auditor will attend the GM and provide an explanation to the shareholders regarding any issues that arose and were addressed in the auditor statement.
9.10.   The bodies and persons discharging control and oversight functions are to ensure that the proper conditions are in place for unhindered access to the necessary documentation.

10. CORPORATE CONFLICT RESOLUTION

10.1.   The Company will make all efforts in order to prevent and resolve corporate conflicts: between bodies of management and the Company's shareholder; among shareholders; between shareholders and other stakeholders; between the Company and other parties.
10.2.   In an effort to prevent and resolve corporate conflicts, the Company will ensure strict and unconditional compliance with Russian law, as well as the Company's conscientious and reasonable behavior with regard to shareholder relations.
10.3.   Actions taken toward corporate conflict resolution is to be based on searching for a resolution that is both lawful and sound, and which meets the interests of the Company.

11. CLOSING PROVISIONS

11.1.   This Code is approved by a General Meeting of the Company's shareholders.
11.2.   Any amendments to this Code are to be introduced by resolve of a General Meeting of the Company shareholders.
EuroChem Mineral & Chemical Company Code of Ethics
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Russia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

APPROVED
by the Board of Directors EuroChem, MCC, OJSC
Minutes dated 14.11.2007 No. 07.11.14-18/10-9
Code of Ethics
EuroChem Mineral & Chemical Company, OJSC
Moscow 2007
 
1.  GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1. This Code of Ethics (“Code”) sets out the standards of conduct for all employees of EuroChem Mineral & Chemical Company (“Company”), its branches, managing companies, representatives and subsidiaries, which contribute to the Company's achievement of its key goals and principles in all of the forms of its business operations.

2.  MISSION & VALUES

2.1.    The Company's Mission is: “To be a leading European manufacturer of agrochemical products and a wide range of services, providing guaranteed quality, continuously improving technologies and the living environment.”
2.2.    The foundation of ethical conduct is comprised of the values shared by the Company, its subsidiaries, employees, and all levels of management:
   Respect for the personal rights and interests of employees, clients, suppliers, buyers, partners and the terms and conditions of collaboration with them and with the public as a whole;
   Openness in relations, creating the conditions for an open dialogue on any issues concerning Company operations, encouraging innovations and open discussion within the Company;
   Honesty in relations, providing equal rights for professional growth, protection against discrimination, social protection, and fair work assessments in line with one’s level of professionalism and zone of responsibility;
   Trust as a foundation for the delegation of authorities in the decision-making process and responsibilities for their conscientious performance under competent management and production in strict compliance with approved technologies, safety requirements and quality standards.

3.  BUSINESS PRINCIPLES

3.1.    The Company will be governed by the following principles in conducting business in all areas of operations:
   take a proactive stance and competence with strict compliance with the laws regulating anti-trust policies and competition on all markets in which the Company has a presence;
   take on only those obligations which the Company will perform without fail;
   never intentionally mislead anyone or tolerate corruption, and never take part in any inappropriate actions;
   never permit violence or tolerate premeditated harm to anyone;
   perform operations on a foundation of respect for the culture and local traditions in all regions in which the Company holds a presence;
   achieve  efficiency  based  on  continuous  improvements  and  perfection  of  Company  operations  and product quality.

4.  EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

4.1.    The Company will create the conditions for protecting and upholding the rights of each employee to:
   carry out his responsibilities in line with his position and labor standards;
   receive recognition and an objective evaluation of his contribution to the team and to the Company;
   constructively discuss the quality and efficiency of his work with managers and receive assistance in developing his abilities, professionalism and career growth;
   offer suggestions aimed at increasing teamwork efficiency and expect a response to those suggestions.
4.2.    With respect for each individual’s personal freedom and rights, the Company will not tolerate any form of discrimination or oppression at the workplace or during the hiring process, nor any actions which may be perceived as offensive or in appropriate in terms of freedom of thought and freedom of religion, or as an attack or threat against another’s life.
4.3.    The Company welcomes and encourages:
   leadership and delegation of authorities among competent employees who hold personal responsibility for carrying out their assignments;
   efficiency of each employee, and efficiency as a team;
 

   teamwork with clearly designated authorities and responsibilities;
   honesty in relations and in providing any information required for planning, accounting, control and analysis of operational results;
   building long-term relations with employees and establishing any form of feedback, including regular personal discussions with managers of all levels when addressing the employment terms and other employee interests.
4.4.    The Company aims to remunerate employees for the results of their work based on a clear set of evaluation criteria and expects that each employee will demonstrate initiative and make the maximum contribution in taking on the tasks facing the Company.
4.5.    There are requirements for all employees, managers and management bodies of the Company restricting their use of insider information and conducting insider operations.
4.6.    All employees and managers of the Company must use the Company's assets solely for the purpose of strengthening and developing business without aiming to elicit personal benefits via the abuse of office.

5.  PARTNER & PUBLIC RELATIONS

5.1.    Long-term and stable relations with shareholders, clients, creditors, suppliers and other partners based on trust and mutual benefit play a key role in achieving success; thus, the Company strives to:
   adhere to the principle of mutual benefit and develop business relations in alignment with the interests of all of the Company's partners in mind, and with an understanding for their needs and expectations;
   strictly carry out its obligations as a responsible legal entity in the regions in which the Company holds a presence;
   demonstrate  openness  and  flexibility  in  collaboration  with  the  Company's  partners,  encouraging programs for exchanging experience and measures aimed at mutual support;
   strictly comply with all requirements set out in the Company's Code of Corporate Conduct.
5.2.    Relations with government bodies and agencies of self-government are to be built in accordance with laws and other current statutory acts without any unlawful attempts to exert any influence on said bodies and agencies. The Company is to process timely and full payment of taxes and other payments envisaged by law.
5.3.    In its operations, the Company will focus on client demand and guarantee the high quality of its products and services, valuing its reputation and strictly complying with the standards of business ethics and law.
5.4.    The Company gives preference to business partners and suppliers with impeccable reputations. The Company is dedicated to strict compliance with anti-money laundering legislation. The Company does not accept unlawful payments in any form and will not apply unethical or unfair means of influencing its partners or competitors.
5.5.    The Company shall avoid entering into an agreement with any of its clients concerning the terms and conditions of product sales to Company’s other clients.
5.6.    The Company's primary goal in terms of safety, health and environmental protection is reducing the risk of accidents and breakdowns during production and acting with caution for the environment. The Company continuously strives to:
   manufacture a quality product which is safe for use, and comply with the storage and transport safety standards;
   reduce any harmful impact of production operations on the environment, employee health and the health of the local population;
   identify the requisite resources for ensuring safety, health and environmental protection.

6.  COMPETITOR RELATIONS

6.1.    The Company shall strive to refrain from entering into any kind of agreement, arrangement or understanding concerning actions with competitors which will or may result in:
   establishing or maintaining prices, discounts, extra fees (payments) or extra charges;
   increases, decreases or maintenance of trading prices;
   market divisions based on territorial location, sales volumes or commodity purchases, assortment or the composition of vendors or consumers;
   economically  or  technologically  unfounded  refusal  to  enter  into  a  contract  with  certain  vendors  or consumers;
 

   imposing contractual terms onto a counter party which are not beneficial for the counter party or which are irrelevant to the contract provisions;
   economically, technologically or otherwise unfounded establishment of different prices for the same product;
   reduction or cessation of production of a commodity for which there is demand, or shipment of a commodity for which orders have been placed given that said commodity may be produced at a profit;
   creating a barrier to market entry or exit for other market players.
As exceptions, the Company shall allow agreements, arrangements and understandings exclusively if they may result in:
   improved production, product sales or improved product competition for the Company;
   advantages (benefits) gained by the consumer commensurate to the advantages (benefits) gained by the vendor and other market players as a result of an agreement, arrangement or understanding.
6.2.    The Company shall independently determine prices for products and use exclusively information about market conditions received from public or open sources, which excludes the receipt of information directly from competitors.
6.3.    The Company shall strive to participate in industry and professional associations and shall recognize collaboration with its competitors beneficial for the Company's business combined with strict compliance with the association’s legal operations, goals and tasks and refrain from engaging in discussions on price levels, sales markets, production volumes and other similar terms and conditions for running business with representatives of competing companies within association activities.

7.  ENFORCING THE CODE OF ETHICS

7.1.    All employees must follow the rules set out in this Code. Any employee who has a suggestion or statement on any of the issues envisaged in this Code must immediately submit such to his direct supervisor. The Company will not apply disciplinary measures against any persons who appeal to their managers in accordance with this Code.
7.2.    The Company will ensure the investigation of any breaches of this Code and will take measures to prevent any similar violations in the future.
7.3.    Any amendments or addenda to the provisions of this Code must be approved by a ruling passed by the Company's Board of Directors and made known to all employees and stakeholders in line with current legislation.
European Association for Chemical and Molecular Sciences (EuCheMS)
Region: WEOG
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

The following Code of Conduct for individual members of member societies was approved by the General Assembly in 1985.
CODE OF CONDUCT
1.  This Code of conduct is applicable to individual members of the [name of society] as defined within the statutes of the [name of society].
2.  All individual members of member societies, as defined, have a duty to
o   have special regard at all times to the public interest [and to]
o   the maintenance of the highest standards of competence and integrity
o   conduct themselves honourably in the practice of their profession
o   observe the provisions of the rules and regulations of [name of society]
o   promote the interests of the [name of society] and maintain the dignity and welfare of the [name of society].

European Chemist Registration Board (ECRB)
Region: WEOG
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

EUROPEAN CHEMIST REGISTRATION BOARD
CODE OF CONDUCT
“European Chemists” have a duty :
- to observe any rules and regulations as may be determined by the European Chemist
Registration Board
- to maintain the honour and dignity of the profession
- to conduct themselves honourably in the practice of their profession
- to have a special regard at all times to the public interest
- to maintain the highest standards of competence and integrity
- to have special regard to protection of the environment and to the safety of the public.
European Chemists must bear a personal responsibility for their specific work and the information
produced as a result. In doing so they must take account of any of the following objectives that may
apply to their own field of activity:
1. Purpose:
To identify the purpose of any work envisaged, to ensure that it is necessary, useful and likely to
succeed, and to consider the social, and environmental and economic consequences.
2. Planning:
To ensure that work to be carried out is identified, defined and scheduled in sufficient detail so that
the objectives of the work will be met effectively and efficiently in a timely fashion.
3. Personnel:
To ensure that all work is carried out by personnel who are properly qualified and have appropriate
knowledge, training and experience for the work in hand and are acutely aware of their scientific,
supervisory and management responsibilities.
4. Information Management:
To ensure that all work carried out is completely, accurately and indelibly recorded at the time by the
person concerned and that subsequent reporting and handling ensures its integrity and availability
for as long as it may be required.
5. Materials:
To ensure that all materials, including samples, are identified, safely handled, used, transported,
stored and distributed properly and that the appropriate information concerning them is available.
6. Equipment:
To ensure that all equipment is appropriate to the task in hand and is maintained and operated in
such a manner that it performs to specification during use.
7. Location:
To ensure that any work is carried out in a facility or at a location which is appropriate to that work.
8. Management:
To utilise management systems that encourage and maintain the integrity of the work carried out by
individuals.
9. Quality:
To ensure that work carried out is maintained at the highest standards of competence and integrity
having special regard to the public interest.
European Commission
Region: WEOG
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

C. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR RESPONSIBLE NANOSCIENCES AND NANOTECHNOLOGIES RESEARCH 
From ftp://ftp.cordis.europa.eu/pub/fp7/docs/nanocode-recommendation.pdf

This Code of Conduct provides Member States, employers, research funders, researchers and more generally all individuals and civil society organisations involved or interested in nanosciences and nanotechnologies (N&N) research (“all stakeholders”) with guidelines favouring a responsible and open approach to N&N research in the Community. 

The Code of Conduct is complementary to existing regulations. It does not limit or otherwise affect the possibilities of Member States to grant a wider measure of protection with regard to N&N research than is stipulated in this Code of Conduct. 
Stakeholders who adhere to this Code of Conduct should also be inspired, where applicable, by the principles set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. 

The Code of Conduct will be regularly monitored and revised every two years by the Commission in order to take into account developments in N&N worldwide and their integration in European society. 

1. SCOPE AND AIM 

The Code of Conduct invites all stakeholders to act responsibly and cooperate with each other, in line with the N&N Strategy and Action Plan of the Commission, in order to ensure that N&N research is undertaken in the Community in a safe, ethical and effective framework, supporting sustainable economic, social and environmental development. 

The Code of Conduct covers all N&N research activities undertaken in the European Research Area. 

The Code of Conduct is voluntary. It offers a set of general principles and guidelines for actions to be taken by all N&N stakeholders. It should facilitate and underpin the regulatory and non-regulatory approaches outlined in the 2005-2009 N&N Action Plan for Europe, improving the implementation of current regulation and coping with scientific uncertainties. 

The Code of Conduct should also be a European basis for dialogue with third countries and international organisations. 

2. DEFINITIONS 
    For the purpose of the Code of Conduct, the following definitions apply: 
    
    a) Nano-objects: In the absence of recognised international terminology the generic term of 'nano-object' is used all throughout the Code of Conduct to designate products resulting from N&N research. It includes nanoparticles and their aggregation at nanoscale, nano-systems, nano-materials, nano-structured materials and nano-products. 
    
    b) N&N research: In the broadest sense understood here, N&N research encompasses all research activities dealing with matter at the nanometric scale (1 to 100 nm). It includes all man-made nano-objects be they engineered or involuntarily generated.
    Naturally occurring nano-objects are excluded from the scope of the Code of Conduct N&N research encompasses research activities from the most fundamental research to applied research, technology development and pre and co-normative research underpinning scientific advice, standards and regulations. 
    
    c) N&N stakeholders: Member States, employers, research funders, researchers and more generally all individuals and civil society organisations engaged, involved or interested in N&N research. 

d) Civil society organisations: In the context of the Code of Conduct, civil society organisations are considered to be any legal entity that is non governmental, not-for-profit, not representing commercial interests, and pursuing a common purpose in the public interest. 

3. GENERAL PRINCIPLES 
This Code of Conduct is based on a set of general principles which call for actions aimed at guaranteeing their respect by all stakeholders. 

3.1 Meaning 
N&N research activities should be comprehensible to the public. They should respect fundamental rights and be conducted in the interest of the well-being of individuals and society in their design, implementation, dissemination and use. 

3.2 Sustainability 
N&N research activities should be safe, ethical and contribute to sustainable development serving the sustainability objectives of the Community as well as contributing to the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals. They should not harm or create a biological, physical or moral threat to people, animals, plants or the environment, at present or in the future. 

3.3 Precaution 
N&N research activities should be conducted in accordance with the precautionary principle, anticipating potential environmental, health and safety impacts of N&N outcomes and taking due precautions, proportional to the level of protection, while encouraging progress for the benefit of society and the environment. 

3.4 Inclusiveness 
Governance of N&N research activities should be guided by the principles of openness to all stakeholders, transparency and respect for the legitimate right of access to information. It should allow the participation in decision-making processes of all stakeholders involved in or concerned by N&N research activities. 

3.5 Excellence 
N&N research activities should meet the best scientific standards, including standards underpinning the integrity of research and standards relating to Good Laboratory Practices. 

3.6 Innovation 
Governance of N&N research activities should encourage maximum creativity, flexibility and planning ability for innovation and growth. 

3.7 Accountability 
Researchers and research organisations should remain accountable for the social, environmental and human health impacts that their N&N research may impose on present and future generations. 

European Commission (Latvia)
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Latvia
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Research
involving persons
1) Clinical trials of drugs and pharmaceutical
products
Research involving persons is governed by the
regulation on clinical trials of drugs and
pharmaceutical products (Nr 312, 12.09.2000-
cabinet of ministers).
A clinical trial can be initiated only where the
anticipated benefits from the clinical trial justify the
risks to the healthy person or patient who voluntary
participates in the clinical trial (hereinafter referred
to as “trial subject”) either receiving the
investigational product or participating in the
control group and receiving a comparator product
(product with a known effect or pharmaceutical
form without an active substance used for the
clinical trial data control).
The medical care given to, and all medical decisions
made on behalf of subjects, shall be the responsibility
of an appropriately qualified health care practitioner
with a certificate entitling the practitioner to provide
without any assistance medical care in the specific
field of the clinical trial (hereinafter: “investigator”).
The investigators are selected by the sponsor taking
into account his/her qualification and experience.
The sponsor must ensure further training for the
investigator, if required.
10
Prior to the initiation of the clinical study, the
investigator shall inform the trial subject in writing of
the trial objectives, methods to be used, anticipated
benefits and risks, trial duration, compensation for
participating in the clinical trial, if any, as well as of
the compensation foreseen in the event of a trialrelated
injury. Written information and other
materials to be provided to the trial subject shall be
in a language of which he/she has a good
command off.
Written information for the trial subject must clearly
mention that the trial subject may withdraw from
the trial, at any time, without mentioning motives,
and that withdrawal from the trial will not affect
further medical care negatively.
When deciding about participation of a child in a
clinical trial, the child’s own desire shall be taken
into account if the child has reached seven years of
age.
Inclusion of unconscious persons or persons without
legal capacity in a clinical trial is possible only if the
investigator is justified in believing that participation
benefits the respective person and in as far as the
medicinal product’s clinical trial ethics committee
(hereinafter: “ethics committee”) gave its approval.
In the event the person is unconscious, written
consent for participation in the clinical trial shall be
obtained from the closest relatives of the person, in
the priority order of spouse, parents, children; in
case the person is unable and without legal
capacity written consent must be obtained from the
legal representative (see above).
A clinical study is forbidden in women during
pregnancy and lactation, except in cases where
clinical investigation is otherwise impossible, on the
condition that the risks during the clinical study are
proportional to the anticipated benefits to the
embryo, foetus or infant.
Trial subjects in need of active disease treatment
shall not be included in a control group where the
trial subject receives a reference product that does
not contain the active substance.
To ensure the protection of the trial subject’s
identification data, the investigator attributes an
identification code to each trial subject, which is
used instead of the trial subject’s name and
surname whenever the sponsor reports to the State
Agency of Medicines and Ethics Committee.
To ensure trial subject’s rights and protection in the
clinical trial, the sponsor is responsible for taking out
insurance for the trial subject covering possible
injury and damages due to participation in the trial.
The sponsor shall ensure that the supply of the
investigational products for the clinical trial are
manufactured, packed and labelled in compliance
with the respective normative requirements.
In order to obtain a favourable opinion from an ethics
committee, the sponsor or the person authorised to act
on behalf of the sponsor shall submit the following
documents to the ethics committee :
  application for the approval of clinical trial, signed
by the sponsor (hereinafter: “application”);
11
NATIONAL REGULATIONS ON ETHICS AND RESEARCH IN LATVIA
  protocol and if any, amendments to the protocol,
in Latvian signed by the sponsor and the
investigator (for foreign applicants the referred
documents shall be submitted in compliance with
the requirements stipulated by Language Law);
  trial subject’s informed consent form written in
Latvian by the sponsor, and also in other
languages if required;
  any other written information regarding the
specific clinical trial that is to be provided to the
trial subjects, in Latvian, and also in other
languages if required;
  description of recruitment procedures for trial
subjects in Latvian (for foreign applicants, the
referred document shall be submitted in
compliance with the requirements stipulated by
Language Law);
  compilation of data from previous investigational
product studies (hereinafter: “Investigator’s
Brochure”) in Latvian, (for foreign applicants, the
referred document shall be submitted in
compliance with the requirements stipulated by
Language Law);
  descriptions of experience and qualification of
investigators and other staff involved in the
clinical trial (selected and supervised by the
investigator at the trial site (hereinafter:
“subinvestigator”);
  documents regarding any reward or
compensation of trial subjects for their
participation in the clinical trial, if provided, as
well as the insurance conditions and a copy of the
policy, or a certificate confirming insurance of trial
subjects in case of injury related to their
participation in the clinical trial;
  authorisation by the medical institution for
performing the clinical trial;
  power of attorney statement issued by the
sponsor, if the clinical trial documents are
submitted by another person than the sponsor.
The ethics committee shall issue its opinion in writing
within 30 days upon receipt of the legally required
documents.
If during the examination of the application the
ethics committee considers that the submitted
documentation is incomplete or additional
information on the planned clinical trial is needed,
the ethics committee has the right to require
additional documents or information. The ethics
committee shall provide a written opinion no later
than within 30 days after receipt of all required
documents.
In order to ensure that the clinical trial is conducted
in compliance with the applicable regulations, the
activities of every person involved in the clinical
trial will be subject to an adequate quality control
and surveillance by the State Agency of Medicines.
2) Human genes research
Research on human genes is regulated by the
Latvian Human Genes Research Act (approved by
Saeima in 03.07. 2002, into force from 01.01.2004).
The ‘Gene donor’ shall receive:
  information about aims and content of the
Genome project;
12
  information about taking of tissue sample,
questionnaire, medical records;
  information about potential informational risks;
  information about the right to withdraw his/her
consent, the right to apply for the destruction of
tissue samples or data which enables decoding;
  information about the fact that there will be no
personal financial benefits for gene donors;
  information about the system of data protection.
Two copies of the written informed consent of the
gene donor shall be prepared and signed by the
gene donor and the main processor. One copy shall
be stored at the State Genome Register; the other
copy is given to the gene donor.
The main processor shall give a unique code to each
tissue sample, DNA description, health description
and genealogy. The code shall be indicated on the
written informed consent of the gene donor. The
main processor shall appoint specific persons, who
perform the coding, and who issue coded tissue
samples, DNA descriptions or health descriptions. The
State Data Inspection shall approve the method of
generating the codes. The main processor shall
deliver the written consent together with the code
indicated thereon to the State Genome Register,
which will be the only body to hold the key for
decoding. Thereto, the State Genome Register shall
appoint specific persons to perform the decoding and
have access to written consents of gene donors.
4. Research involving human
biological material (blood,
organs, tissues, cells, dna)
1) Latvian Human Genes Research Act
Objectives:
1. to regulate the creation and functioning of the
Genome Database and genetic research
connected with the database;
2. to ensure the voluntary nature of gene donation
and the confidentiality of the identity of gene
donors;
3. to protect gene donors from misuse of their data
and from discrimination based on interpretation
of their DNA.
The council of ministers authorises the main
processor of the Genome Database. The main
processor organises the collection of tissue samples,
preparation of health descriptions and genealogies,
13
NATIONAL REGULATIONS ON ETHICS AND RESEARCH IN LATVIA
the coding, storage and destruction of tissue samples
and health descriptions and genealogies, and also
organises the performance of genetic research
through the generation of genetic data, their
collection, storage, and destruction.
The main processor must store the coded tissue
samples, DNA descriptions and health descriptions
within the territory of the Republic of Latvia.
The Central Medical Ethics Committee may grant
permission for a limited number of tissue samples to
be stored abroad if appropriate research methods
are not available in Latvia.
Supervision of the collection, coding and decoding,
and processing of tissue samples, descriptions of
DNA, health descriptions and genealogical data is
ensured by the State Data Inspection. The Central
Medical Ethics Committee shall supervise the ethical
issues during the creation of the Genome Database
and the processing of the data according to
generally recognised ethical rules and international
conventions.
2) Law on Protection of Dead Human Being and use
of Human Organs and Tissue
The Law on the Protection of Dead Human Being
and use of Human Organs and Tissue was adopted
on 15.12.1992, into force since 01.01.1993 and
amended on 21.09.1995 and 06.12.2001) and is
complemented by the regulations of the cabinet of
ministers on Kidney Transplantation. Regulation of
Cabinet of Ministers nr 398 on storage and use of
human organ and tissues, adopted 15.07.2003,
in forse 19.07.2003.
A living person may, under certain conditions,
consent to the removal of an organ or tissue for the
purpose of implantation into another person; live
organ donation primarily concerns kidney
transplantation. The transplantation of organs
removed from a living donor to a recipient
generally takes place between persons having a
close personal relationship.
Organs or tissues may be removed from a deceased
person and implanted into another person in as far
as this person is registered on an official waiting list.
Following an agreed procedure the doctors must
confirm and certify the death. Only this form of
death certification can permit the performance of
such transplantation. The retrieval team must
ensure that the required procedure has been
completed before any retrieval operation is started.
The medical team certifying the death should not be
involved in any stage of the transplant process.
A person who is undergoing a procedure for his/her
own medical benefit may consent to any removed
organ or tissue being implanted into another person.
If during their lifetime a person has made known their
wishes for giving or denying consent, these wishes
should be respected after his/her death. If there is an
official facility for recording these wishes and a person
has registered consent to donation, such consent
should prevail: removal should be performed,
if possible. By the same token, it may not proceed if
the person is known to have objected. Nonetheless,
consultation of an official register of last wishes is
valid only in respect of the persons entered in it.
14
The human body and its parts must not, as such,
give rise to financial gain or comparable
advantage.
Reproductive organs and tissues (comprising ova,
sperm and their precursors) are excluded from the
scope of the regulations because organ and tissue
transplantation is deemed to have different
implications from those of medically assisted
procreation and therefore should not be governed
by the same rules.
Transplantation of embryonic and foetal organs and
tissue, including embryonic stem cells are also
excluded from the scope of these regulations.
The person from whom the material is removed is
generally called ‘donor’ and the person into whom
the material is implanted is called the recipient.
Furthermore tissues such as bone may be processed
and the resulting products implanted into more than
one recipient. Similarly, cells may be cultured to
supply more than one recipient.
The safeguards in the Regulations apply to all
possible steps in the transplant process and to all
possible recipients.
The competence of a doctor or other health care
worker to take part in a transplant procedure is
determined by the Act.
Regulations require that organ and tissue
implantation is only performed if there is a clear
and specific medical indication for the recipient and
not for any other reason than for the therapeutic
benefit of the recipient. Before a transplant can be
performed, the recipient must have a defined
medical problem that should be improved by a
successful transplantation. The potential benefit of
the procedure to the recipient must outweigh any
risk. At all times, a decision to transplant must be
taken only in the best interests of the patient.
The recipient shall be informed beforehand of the
purpose and nature of the implantation,
its consequences and risks, as well as of the
alternatives. Where the recipient is too ill to be able
to give informed consent, in particular in
emergency cases, the information shall also be
given to the person or body providing the
authorisation to the implantation.
3) Regulation of Ministry of Welfare of Latvia on
Blood Safety No. 260, September 20, 1995
These regulations cover blood and the products
derived from blood for use in transfusion medicine,
preparation, use and quality assurance of blood
components.
15
NATIONAL REGULATIONS ON ETHICS AND RESEARCH IN LATVIA
5. Research involving
human embryos and
embryonic stem cells
There are no regulations, which define embryo in
Latvia.
Law on Reproductive and Sexual Health (approved
31.01.2002, in force on 01.07.2002)
Regulation of Ministry of Welfare of Latvia on
Human Medical Assisted Reproduction
(No173/1999).
According to these regulations, it is prohibited to
create human embryos for research purposes or to
clone a human being. Regulation of the Ministry of
Welfare, is now under preparation that will allow in
vitro research on embryos.
6. Personal data
The Council of Europe’s Convention for the Protection
of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of
Personal Data and Personal Data Protection Law
applies to the processing of all types of personal data.
The Personal Data Protection Law implements the
Directive 95/46/EC into national legislation.
In accordance with Art. 2 of Personal Data
Protection Law, personal data is any information
related to an identified or identifiable natural
person. In principle, it does not matter who can
identify the data subject. Data could be considered
and treated as not identifiable and accordingly not
as personal data, only if they contain information
that cannot reasonably be used by anyone to
identify the individuals to whom the data relate.
The Personal Data Protection Law does not give a
direct answer to the question about its extension to
dead persons. However, in practice it is accepted to
consider that in separate cases the Personal Data
Protection Law covers proceeding with dead data
(for instance, genetic research or operations
involving use of health records).
The national legislation contains some exceptions to
the data subject’s rights in order to protect the public
safety or patient’s interests in case of medical
intervention.
In accordance with the Law On Medical Treatment
only medical practitioners shall provide patient
information related to his/her health. According to
16
Art. 41 of this Law, a doctor may provide
incomplete information to the patient regarding the
diagnosis and prognosis of the disease, if he/she
considers that fuller information may cause
deterioration in the state of health of the patient.
Law on Medical Treatment
Art. 50.
“(1) Information regarding the medical treatment of
a patient, the diagnosis and prognosis of a disease
(hereinafter – information regarding a patient),
as well as information obtained by medical
practitioners during the medical treatment process
regarding the private life of a patient and his or her
closest relatives, shall be confidential.
(2) Information regarding a patient may be
provided to:
  other medical practitioners for the purpose of
achieving the objectives of the medical treatment;
  the Medical Commission for Expert-Examination of
Health and Working Ability(MCEEHWA); and
  the Quality Control Inspection for Expert-
Examination in Medical Care and Ability to Work.
(3) Information regarding a patient shall be
provided to a court, the Office of the Prosecutor, the
police, the State Centre for the Protection of the
Rights of the Child (inspectors), an Orphan’s court
(a parish court), as well as to investigative institutions
only at the written request of such institutions if there
is a permission signed by the head of the medical
treatment institution.
(4) Information regarding a patient may be used in
scientific research if the anonymity of the patient is
guaranteed or his/her consent has been received.
(5) State military service administrations of the
Ministry of Defence are entitled to request from
medical treatment institutions.”
Law on Data Protection
Art. 7.
“Personal data processing is permitted only if not
prescribed otherwise by law, and at least one of the
following conditions exist:
1) the data subject has given his or her consent;
2) the personal data processing results from
contractual obligations of the data subject;
3) the data processing is necessary to a system
controller for the performance of his or her lawful
obligations;
4) the data processing is necessary to protect vitally
important interests of the data subject, including
life and health;
5) the data processing is necessary in order to ensure
that the public interest is complied with, or to fulfil
functions of public authority for whose performance
the personal data have been transferred to a
system controller or transmitted to a third person;
6) the data processing is necessary in order to,
complying with the fundamental human rights and
freedoms of the data subject, exercise lawful
interests of the system controller or of such a third
person as the personal data have been disclosed to.”
Art. 11.
“The processing of sensitive personal data is
prohibited, except in cases where:
1) the data subject has given his or her written
consent for the processing of his or her sensitive
personal data;
17
NATIONAL REGULATIONS ON ETHICS AND RESEARCH IN LATVIA
2) special processing of personal data, without
requesting the consent of the data subject, is
provided for by regulatory enactments which
regulate legal relations regarding employment,
and such regulatory enactments guarantee the
protection of personal data;
3) personal data processing is necessary to protect
the life and health of the data subject or another
person, and the data subject is not legally or
physically able to express his or her consent;
4) personal data processing is necessary to achieve
the lawful, non-commercial objectives of public
organisations and their associations, if such data
processing is only related to the members of these
organisations or their associations and the personal
data is not transferred to third parties;
5) personal data processing is necessary for the
purposes of medical treatment, is carried out by a
medical practitioner or a medical treatment
institution and an adequate level of protection of
personal data is ensured; or
6) the processing concerns such personal data as
necessary for the protection of lawful rights and
interests of natural or legal persons in court
proceedings.”
Art. 16.
“A data subject has the right to request that his or
her personal data be supplemented or rectified, as
well as that their processing be suspended or that
the data be destroyed if the personal data is
incomplete, outdated, false, unlawfully obtained or
are no longer necessary for the purposes for which
they were collected. If the data subject is able to
substantiate that the personal data included in the
personal data processing system is incomplete,
outdated, false, unlawfully obtained or no longer
necessary for the purposes for which they were
collected, the system controller has an obligation to
rectify this inaccuracy or violation without delay
and notify third parties who have previously
received the processed data of such.”
Art. 29.
“The protection of personal data shall be carried
out by the State Data Inspection which shall be
subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Justice.
The State Data Inspection shall be managed by a
director who shall be appointed and released from
his or her position by the Cabinet pursuant to the
recommendation of the Minister for Justice.”
There are some specific requirements that need to
be fulfilled prior to the performance of medical
research. In particular, the Human Genome
Research Law regulates the usage of codes or
identification numbers in genetic research.
In order to ensure the highest standard of data
protection, the main processor shall provide each
tissue sample, each DNA description, each health
description and each genealogy with a unique
code immediately upon receipt of these data in the
Genome Database. The main processor shall
replace all data, which enables the reverse
identification of the gene donor, including the
name, personal code and residence, with a code.
The code shall be indicated on the written informed
consent of the gene donor. The main processor
must organise the taking of tissue samples,
preparation of health descriptions and genealogies,
code, store and destroy tissue samples, code, store,
destroy and issue health descriptions and
genealogies, perform genetic research, and collect,
store, destroy and issue genetic data. The State
Data Inspection shall approve the method
generating the codes.
7. Genetic information
18
Latvian Human Genes Research Act – (approved
by Saeima in 03.07, 2002, into force from 01.01.
2004)
The Council of Ministers granted the Main Processor
of the Genome Database an authorisation.
The main processor organises the taking of tissue
samples, the preparation of health descriptions and
genealogies, the coding, storage and destruction of
tissue samples, the coding, storage, destruction and
issuing of health descriptions and genealogies, the
performance of genetic research, and collection,
storage, destruction and issuing of genetic data.
The main processor has the right to delegate the
rights of processing, except for coding and
decoding, to an authorised processor. The main
processor must store in the Genome Database the
coded tissue samples, the DNA descriptions and the
health descriptions within the territory of the
Republic of Latvia.
Supervision over the collection, coding and
decoding, and processing of tissue samples,
descriptions of DNA, health descriptions and
genealogical data shall be exercised by the State
Data Inspection.
Under the supervision of the Ministry of Health and
State Data Inspection, the State Genome Register
shall be founded to create a database of personal
data of gene donors.
The Central Medical Ethics Committee may grant
permission for a limited number of tissue samples to
be stored abroad, if appropriate research methods
are not available in Latvia. The Central Medical
Ethics Committee shall oversee ethical issues during
the establishment of the Genome Database and the
processing of the data according to generally
recognised ethical rules and international
conventions.
19
NATIONAL REGULATIONS ON ETHICS AND RESEARCH IN LATVIA
Supervision of the collection, coding and decoding,
and processing of tissue samples, descriptions of
DNA, health descriptions and genealogical data
shall be performed by the State Data Inspection.
Gene donors have the right to access their data
stored in the Genome database and the right to
genetic counselling. Gene donors have the right to
submit additional personal information to the main
processor, as well as the right to prohibit the
supplementation, renewal and verification of
descriptions of their state of health stored in the
Genome Database. A Gene donor has the right to
withdraw his or her consent to be a gene donor for
the Latvian Genome Database at any time.
8. Research
involving animals
Ethics Committee on Laboratory Animal Use in
Biomedical Research
The Ethics Committee on Laboratory Animal Use in
Biomedical Research is a Committee of the Latvian
Council of Science and acts in accordance with the
rules of the Latvian Council of Science. Its activities
touch upon all aspects related to the use of
laboratory animals in biomedical and veterinary
medical investigations, including sources for
obtaining laboratory animals, laboratory animal
breeding, transportation, housing, and use in
experiments. The major task of the ethics committee
is to review from an ethical point of view, all new
scientific projects, which plan the use of laboratory
animals, and which have applied for possible
financing to the Latvian Council of Science, or any
other expert committee.
The overall objectives and activities are the
following:
1. To support certified and competent specialists in
their activities - as well as all others involved in
the breeding and use of laboratory animals - in
the implementation and application of the
recommendations, directives and regulations of
the European Convention of 1986 on the
Protection of vertebrate animals used for
experimental and other scientific purposes by
  co-operating with the corresponding
laboratory animal breeding facilities and
research institutions in any field connected
with laboratory animals;
  giving recommendations and consultations
to researchers, who apply to the Latvian
Council of Science, or any other expert
committee for financing and whose research
projects plan the use of laboratory animals.
2. To ensure that scientific projects planning to
involve laboratory animals:
  limit the numbers of laboratory animals used
and their suffering as much as possible,
as well as unnecessary use of animals or
their organs, on the basis of the high quality
of the scientific experiments as well as
laboratory animals;
  use laboratory animals economically and in
a humane way;
  promote the development and use of
alternative methods;
  use thoroughly elaborated methods in
experiments with laboratory animals,
which should include appropriate analgesia,
anaesthesia and euthanasia, and which
should provide the implementation of
improvements in routine practice.
3. To participate actively in the development of
policy concerning the protection of laboratory
animals used in biomedical and veterinary
medical research.
4. To optimise the welfare conditions of laboratory
animals:
  in co-operation with the State Veterinary
Department to develop regulations on the
inspections of laboratory animal breeding
facilities and the research laboratories,
where laboratory animals are used for
investigations, in order to control routine
conditions and improvements of the
environment;
  to supply the scientific community with
information regarding the current animal
welfare situation in laboratory animal
science in order to provide researchers with
insight into the level of welfare of laboratory
animals that they use in their experiments;
  to follow-up and ensure that training and
practical workshops are organised on a
regular basis to obtain basic skills for
laboratory animal research.
5. To promote knowledge about laboratory animal
welfare:
  by ensuring that every researcher using
laboratory animals directly or indirectly,
is informed about the problems of laboratory
animal welfare;
  by supporting the promotion and
understanding of knowledge about
laboratory animals, and by organising
constructive discussions on ethical issues;
  by ensuring that every researcher, who
works with laboratory animals, is able to
express his/her concern, thoughts or ideas
about his/her work.
The Ethical Committee is composed of 13-15
members:
  representatives of the Latvian Council of Science;
  laboratory animal breeders;
  representatives of the State Veterinary
Department;
  representatives of the Ministry of Welfare;
20
  laboratory animal users from different research
institutions;
  representatives of the environment protection
organisations;
  representatives of the Baltic Laboratory Animal
Science Association.
It is the Latvian Council of Science that accepts the
list of the members of the Ethical Committee and
appoints the Chairperson.
Law on Animal Protection (accepted January 1,
2000, amendments on 27.12.2002 Regulation of
Cabinet of Ministers Nr. 576)
Cruel treatment of animals is prohibited, that is:
1. the killing of an animal, except in the cases
provided for in this Law;
2. the mutilating, tormenting and torturing of an
animal;
3. leaving an animal without care;
4. leaving an animal in a helpless situation;
5. annoying and baiting an animal, except in the
cases when it is necessary for the training of a
work animal;
6. the organisation of animal fights, the involvement
of animals in such fights and support of such
fights;
7. the use of animals for religious rituals, lotteries
and giving animals as gifts at public events
except for farm exhibitions;
8. the use of an animal as a target for training in
shooting or in competitions;
9. the use of animals for the training of animals of
other species, except for the training of hunting
dogs;
10. the use of animals, making them exceed their
natural capabilities;
11. the showing of animals in travelling menageries;
12. the offering and use of a female animal for the
sexual satisfaction of a male animal without the
intent of obtaining offspring;
13. the carrying out of other such actions, which
cause or may cause mutilation or death,
or create suffering for an animal, except in cases
when such actions have been carried out for
treatment, experimental or scientific purposes or
in cases when the life or health of a human
being is under threat.
The Animal Protection Ethics Council is a
consultative authority, which shall educate the
general public and give recommendations to State
institutions in the sphere of animal protection.
It is comprised of representatives of the State,
scientific institutions and public organisations.
Art. 24.
“1. Specially raised animals (laboratory animals),
or where the permission of owners is obtained,
other animals, may be used for experimental
and scientific purposes.
2. Wild animals may be used for experimental and
scientific purposes if it is not possible to achieve
the objective by other means.
21
NATIONAL REGULATIONS ON ETHICS AND RESEARCH IN LATVIA
22
3. The number of animals to be used for
experimental and scientific purposes shall be
reduced by improving experimental methods
and, if possible, experiments with animals shall
be replaced by alternative methods of research.”
Art. 25.
“After evaluation of an opinion by the Animal
Protection Ethics Council, the State Veterinary
Service shall issue a permit for the use of animals for
experimental and scientific research.”
Art. 26.
“In acquiring professional education in biological,
medical and veterinary medicine it is permitted to
use laboratory animals and other animals during
the study process, if it is not possible to achieve the
objective by other means.”
Art. 32.
“1. Collections of wild animals (zoological gardens,
animal parks, aquariums, terrariums and others)
may be established for scientific, educational
and species-saving purposes.
2. Wild animal collections may be established only
with a permit from the Ministry of Environmental
Protection and Regional Development and a
permit from the State Veterinary Service.”
Art. 36.
“1. An animal shall be transported by an
appropriate means of transport, ensuring
conditions not harmful to its health.”

Exxon Mobil
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
The Board maintains policies and procedures (which we refer to as our Code) that represent both the code of ethics for the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer contemplated by SEC rules and the code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers, and employees contemplated by NYSE listing standards.

The Code applies to all directors, officers, and employees. Any amendment of the Code will be promptly posted on this site.

The Board Affairs Committee will review any issues under the Code involving an executive officer or director and will report its findings to the Board. The Board does not envision that any waivers of the Code will be granted, but should a waiver occur for an executive officer or director, it will be promptly disclosed on our website.

The Code consists of the Ethics Policy, the Conflicts of Interest Policy, the Corporate Assets Policy, the Directorships Policy and the "Procedures and Open Door Communication" section from the Standards of Business Conduct.

The Code follows:

Ethics Policy
The policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation is to comply with all governmental laws, rules, and regulations applicable to its business.

The Corporation's Ethics policy does not stop there. Even where the law is permissive, the Corporation chooses the course of highest integrity. Local customs, traditions, and mores differ from place to place, and this must be recognized. But honesty is not subject to criticism in any culture. Shades of dishonesty simply invite demoralizing and reprehensible judgments. A well-founded reputation for scrupulous dealing is itself a priceless corporate asset.

The Corporation cares how results are obtained, not just that they are obtained. Directors, officers, and employees should deal fairly with each other and with the Corporation's suppliers, customers, competitors, and other third parties.

The Corporation expects compliance with its standard of integrity throughout the organization and will not tolerate employees who achieve results at the cost of violation of law or who deal unscrupulously. The Corporation's directors and officers support, and expect the Corporation's employees to support, any employee who passes up an opportunity or advantage that would sacrifice ethical standards.

It is the Corporation's policy that all transactions will be accurately reflected in its books and records. This, of course, means that falsification of books and records and the creation or maintenance of any off-the-record bank accounts are strictly prohibited. Employees are expected to record all transactions accurately in the Corporation's books and records, and to be honest and forthcoming with the Corporation's internal and independent auditors.

The Corporation expects candor from employees at all levels and adherence to its policies and internal controls. One harm which results when employees conceal information from higher management or the auditors is that other employees think they are being given a signal that the Corporation's policies and internal controls can be ignored when they are inconvenient. That can result in corruption and demoralization of an organization. The Corporation's system of management will not work without honesty, including honest bookkeeping, honest budget proposals, and honest economic evaluation of projects.

It is the Corporation's policy to make full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in reports and documents that the Corporation files with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and in other public communications. All employees are responsible for reporting material information known to them to higher management so that the information will be available to senior executives responsible for making disclosure decisions.

Conflicts of Interest Policy
It is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation that directors, officers, and employees are expected to avoid any actual or apparent conflict between their own personal interests and the interests of the Corporation. A conflict of interest can arise when a director, officer, or employee takes actions or has personal interests that may interfere with his or her objective and effective performance of work for the Corporation. For example, directors, officers, and employees are expected to avoid actual or apparent conflict in dealings with suppliers, customers, competitors, and other third parties. Directors, officers, and employees are expected to refrain from taking for themselves opportunities discovered through their use of corporate assets or through their positions with the Corporation. Directors, officers, and employees are expected to avoid securities transactions based on material, nonpublic information learned through their positions with the Corporation. Directors, officers, and employees are expected to refrain from competing with the Corporation.

Corporate Assets Policy
It is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation that directors, officers, and employees are expected to protect the assets of the Corporation and use them efficiently to advance the interests of the Corporation. Those assets include tangible assets and intangible assets, such as confidential information of the Corporation. No director, officer, or employee should use or disclose at any time during or subsequent to employment or other service to the Corporation, without proper authority or mandate, confidential information obtained from any source in the course of the Corporation's business. Examples of confidential information include nonpublic information about the Corporation's plans, earnings, financial forecasts, business forecasts, discoveries, competitive bids, technologies, and personnel.

Directorships Policy
It is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation to restrict the holding by officers and employees of directorships in nonaffiliated, for-profit organizations and to prohibit the acceptance by any officer or employee of such directorships that would involve a conflict of interest with, or interfere with, the discharge of the officer's or employee's duties to the Corporation. Any officer or employee may hold directorships in nonaffiliated, nonprofit organizations, unless such directorships would involve a conflict of interest with, or interfere with, the discharge of the officer's or employee's duties to the Corporation, or obligate the Corporation to provide support to the nonaffiliated, nonprofit organizations. Officers and employees may serve as directors of affiliated companies and such service may be part of their normal work assignments.

All directorships in public companies held by directors of the Corporation are subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. In all other cases, directorships in nonaffiliated, for-profit organizations are subject to review and approval by the management of the Corporation, as directed by the Chairman.

Procedures and Open Door Communication
Exxon Mobil Corporation encourages employees to ask questions, voice concerns, and make appropriate suggestions regarding the business practices of the Corporation. Employees are expected to report promptly to management suspected violations of law, the Corporation's policies, and the Corporation's internal controls, so that management can take appropriate corrective action. The Corporation promptly investigates reports of suspected violations of law, policies, and internal control procedures.

Management is ultimately responsible for the investigation of and appropriate response to reports of suspected violations of law, policies, and internal control procedures. Internal Audit has primary responsibility for investigating violations of the Corporation's internal controls, with assistance from others, depending on the subject matter of the inquiry. The persons who investigate suspected violations are expected to exercise independent and objective judgment.

Normally, an employee should discuss such matters with the employee's immediate supervisor. Each supervisor is expected to be available to subordinates for that purpose. If an employee is dissatisfied following review with the employee's immediate supervisor, that employee is encouraged to request further reviews, in the presence of the supervisor or otherwise. Reviews should continue to the level of management appropriate to resolve the issue.

Depending on the subject matter of the question, concern, or suggestion, each employee has access to alternative channels of communication, for example, the Controller's Department; Internal Audit; the Human Resources Department; the Law Department; the Safety, Health and Environment Department; the Security Department; and the Treasurer's Department.

Suspected violations of law or the Corporation's policies involving a director or executive officer, as well as any concern regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters, should be referred directly to the General Auditor of the Corporation. The Board Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation will initially review all issues involving directors or executive officers, and will then refer all such issues to the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

Employees may also address communications to individual nonemployee directors or to the nonemployee directors as a group by writing them at Exxon Mobil Corporation, 5959 Las Colinas Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039, U.S.A., or such other addresses as the Corporation may designate and publish from time to time.

Employees wishing to make complaints without identifying themselves may do so by telephoning 1-800-963-9966 or 1-972-444-1990, or by writing the Global Security Manager, Exxon Mobil Corporation, P. O. Box 142106, Irving, Texas 75014, U.S.A., or such other telephone numbers and addresses as the Corporation may designate and publish from time to time. All complaints to those telephone numbers and addresses concerning accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters will be referred to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.

All persons responding to employees' questions, concerns, complaints, and suggestions are expected to use appropriate discretion regarding anonymity and confidentiality, although the preservation of anonymity and confidentiality may or may not be practical, depending on the circumstances. For example, investigations of significant complaints typically necessitate revealing to others information about the complaint and complainant. Similarly, disclosure can result from government investigations and litigation.

No action may be taken or threatened against any employee for asking questions, voicing concerns, or making complaints or suggestions in conformity with the procedures described above, unless the employee acts with willful disregard of the truth.

Failure to behave honestly, and failure to comply with law, the Corporation's policies, and the Corporation's internal controls may result in disciplinary action, up to and including separation.

No one in the Corporation has the authority to make exceptions or grant waivers to the Corporation's foundation policies. It is recognized that there will be questions about the application of the policies to specific activities and situations. In cases of doubt, directors, officers, and employees are expected to seek clarification and guidance. In those instances where the Corporation, after review, approves an activity or situation, the Corporation is not granting an exception or waiver but is determining that there is no policy violation. If the Corporation determines that there is or would be a policy violation, appropriate action is taken.
Federation of European Biochemical Societies
Region: WEOG
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

The European Code of Conduct
for Research Integrity
2.1 The Code of Conduct
2.1.1 Preamble
This Code of Conduct is not a body of law, but rather
a canon for self-regulation. It is a basic responsibility
of the scientific community to formulate the principles
and virtues of scientific and scholarly research,
to define its criteria for proper research behaviour,
and to set its own house in order in case scientific
integrity is threatened.
Science as the process of knowledge augmentation
is embedded in a wider socio-ethical context,
and scientists must be aware of their specific responsibility
towards society and the welfare of mankind.
They bear responsibility for the choice of subjects to
be investigated and its consequences, for proper care
and treatment concerning the objects of research,
and attention and concern with respect to practical
applications and use of their research results. In this
Code, however, we confine ourselves to standards
of integrity while conducting research, and do not
consider this wider socio-ethical responsibility.
2.1.2 Code of Conduct
Science, including natural and social sciences as
well as humanities, is the systematised knowledge
obtained through observation and experimentation,
study and thinking. Scientific research is carried out
to determine the nature and principles of what is
being studied. In spite of their differences in content
and methods all sciences have a common characteristic:
they depend on arguments and evidence,
i.e. observations of nature or of humans and their
actions and products.
Researchers, research institutes, universities,
academies and funding organisations commit
themselves to observe and to promote the principles
of scientific integrity. These include: honesty
in reporting and communicating, reliability in
performing research, objectivity, impartiality and
independence, openness and accessibility, duty of
care, fairness in providing references and giving
credits, and responsibility for future science generations.
Research institutes, funding organisations,
academies and other actors in the field of scientific
research have to adhere to appropriate standards for
data management and preservation of records and
data and to high ethical standards in dealing with
research participants.
Research employers (universities, institutes and
other research performing organisations) also have
a responsibility to ensure that a culture of research
integrity prevails. This includes clear policies and
procedures, training and mentoring of researchers
at all stages of their careers, and robust management
procedures to ensure that high standards are
observed and any transgression is identified at an
early stage.
Fabrication and falsification, including misrepresentation
and deliberately omitting unwelcome
facts or data, are among the most serious violations
of the ethos of science. Also plagiarism is an
unacceptable form of misbehaviour, and a violation
against other researchers.
Institutes or organisations that fail to deal
properly with such wrongdoing are also guilty of
dereliction of duty. All allegations should be properly
assessed, and credible allegations should be
investigated fully, with corrective actions taken if
allegations are confirmed.
Minor misdemeanours, reflecting only poor
performance by researchers as opposed to serious
misconduct – some adjustment or selecting of data
or ‘adaptation’ of a figure – may not give cause to
a formal charge. Minor misdemeanours by students
or junior researchers should however always
be reprimanded and corrected by teachers or mentors.
Minor misdemeanours by more experienced
researchers that leads to misrepresentation may be
treated more seriously, and if repeated should be
considered as misconduct.
In addition to the violation of the fundamental
principles of responsible science many other
forms of poor and inappropriate practices in science
research deserve attention. These include poor
data practices and inadequate data management,
inappropriate research procedures, including questionable
procedures for obtaining informed consent,
insufficient respect and care for participants in the
research, improper research design and carelessness
in observation and analysis, unsuitable authorship
or publishing practices, and reviewing and editorial
derelictions. Some of these are very serious and
discreditable, e.g. abuse of ethical requirements and
of trust in relation to the public, research subjects or
other participants in the research. However, unlike
the fundamental principles of scientific integrity
and the violation thereof, which have a universal
character, such practices may be subject to different
national traditions, legislative regulations or institutional
provisions. A required system of regulations of
good practice in research should, therefore, (except
for gross violations of ethical principles or the law)
not be part of a universal Code of Conduct, but
should be developed in the form of national Good
Practice Rules, that would recognise the legitimate
differences between national or institutional systems.
The enclosed list of recommendations should
be used as a guideline for the formulation of such
national Good Practice Rules.
Investigations of research misconduct allegations
should be consistent with national laws of the
country in which the investigations are conducted.
What is required is a due and fair process, that is
uniform and sufficiently rapid, and leads to proper
outcomes and sanctions. The investigations must be
carried out in accordance with the highest standards
of process integrity, uniformity within one
domain of jurisdiction, and fairness to all parties.
Confidentiality should be observed as much as possible,
unnecessary detriment to reputations should
be avoided, and a proportionate action should be
taken against persons found to have committed
research misconduct. Wherever possible precaution
should be taken to ensure that investigations are
carried through to a conclusion. They should not
cease, leaving questions unresolved, merely because
the defaulter has left the institution.
In international collaboration partners should
agree to conduct their research according to the
same standards of research integrity, and to bring
any suspected deviation from these standards, in
particular alleged research misconduct, to the
immediate attention of the project leader(s) (and
of the senior responsible officer in the university
or institute (employer), in order for it to be investigated
according to the policies and procedures of
the partner with the primary responsibility, while
respecting the laws and sovereignty of the States of
all participating parties. In large scale, funded international
projects the promotion of good practice
and the handling of possible cases of misconduct,
as recommended by the coordinating committee of
the OECD Global Science Forum, should be followed.
The boiler plate text, recommended by this committee,
should be embodied in the formal documents
that establish the collaborative project.

Formosa Plastic Corporation
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Taiwan
Type of Organisation: Chemistry-Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

The corporate EH&S Policy of Formosa Plastic Corporation, U.S.A. states:
"The company is committed to the protection of our environment, the safety and health of our employees and the community.
This is accomplished through the use of clear and well-documented systems and procedures, proper training and qualification, high performance expectations, continual improvement in pollution prevention, minimization and recycling, as well as workplace hazard analysis and prevention.
Through the joint efforts of every employee, we shall maintain full compliance with all applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, conserve natural resources, reduce wastes and keep our environment clean and our workplace free of health and safety hazards, for ourselves, for the community and for future generations."
German Chemical Industries
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Voluntary measures of the German chemical industry and the chemical trade companies to prevent the diversion of chemicals that might be abused for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs. 
The chemical industry and chemical trade companies will comply conscientiously with the provisions of the above-mentioned pieces of legislation, with a view to eliminating the di¬version of chemicals ro the greatest degree possible. Furthermore the companies will en¬sure compliance with the obligations stipulated under nos. I ro 9 below. With the measures described under no. 6. simultaneously the requirements under Articles 8 and 9 of Regula¬tion 273/2004 and Articles 9 and 10 of Regulation 111 /2005 are met. 
I..     Deliveries of the substances listed in annex I must only be made to reliable pur¬chasers who commit themselves to observe the measures stipulated in items 2 to 
5. 
1   Before the delivery is made the supplier must ascertain the name and address of the purchaser, the intended use and the place of delivery 
2   Before the delivery is made the supplier must make enquiries with regard ro the reliability of the purchaser. 

A purchaser is considered reliable if he is known to the supplier on the basis of regular business contacts, if his business practices are those customary in trade, and if there are no circumstances to justify suspicion. 
4. The supplier must demand from the purchaser a written declaration ("customer 
declaration") about the intended use that the purchaser will comply with the measures stipulated in this agree¬ment. 
For this purpose the supplic!r must employ. for substances of categories 1 and :2 of Regulation 273/2004. the model according to Annex III of this Regulation: for all other chemicals the model according to Annex 2 of thi Catalogue of Measures. No such declaration is necessary for hydrochloric acid and sulphuric acid. 
S. If a purchaser refuses to give the required information and to make the required declarations. or if there arc doubts whether the ordered substances will be used exclusively for legal purposes, no delivery shall be made. 
 

German Chemical Society
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Gesellschaft Deutscher Chemiker e.V. (GDCh, German Chemical Society) 

Code of Conduct

The GDCh obligates itself and its members to defend freedom, tolerance, and truthfulness in science, notably to raise chemistry’s reputation as well as to protect and increase chemical knowledge and know-how. All GDCh members are aware that they as natural scientists are notably responsible for the impact of their professional activities to mankind and nature.

GDCh and its members support and promote a sustainable and enduring development in society, economy and environment. They always act with the awareness of their responsibility for future generations. They respect the existing legal framework and international conventions for their professional activities, results, and impact and they fight against misuse of chemistry, e.g. for production of chemical weapons or drugs. During development, application and dissemination of chemical knowledge they are obliged to truth, and they do not use unfair practices. 

Members who infringe these principles affect the prestige of science and the chemical profession. They might be suspended from GDCh.


The above code of conduct  is an inherent part of the GDCh statutes. While joining the Gesellschaft Deutscher Chemiker each new society member is signing this code of conduct.


Hitachi Chemical Group
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Hitachi Chemical Group Codes of Conduct 
1.1 Provision of Safe High-Quality Products and Services 
(1) We will satisfy customer needs and specifications. We will not only obey quality, safety and environmental laws and standards, but also set our own voluntary standards when necessary to ensure the quality of our products and services. We will strive to guarantee safety and realize the goal of zero product defects so that customers can use our products and services with a sense of security. 
(2) We will respond quickly and sincerely to defects and customer complaints, and strive to determine the causes and implement thorough measures to prevent recurrence. 
(3) We will construct and administer appropriate quality management systems. 

1.2 Sales Activities 
(1) We will carefully understand what customers seek from the customer’s viewpoint, and provide reliable, satisfactory products and services. 
(2) We will observe domestic and overseas competition laws and regulations as a matter of course and act appropriately as a member of society under the basic principles of conduct according to the rule of law and ethical corporate integrity and fair, transparent and free competition. 
(3) We will not engage in sales activities that place unreasonable pressure on customers, such as forcing customers to engage in transactions with the company or the Hitachi Chemical Group. 
(4) We will build appropriate relations with retailers and other sales channels. We will not conduct trade under conditions that differ, without good reason, from our terms of trade with other parties, place any unlawful restraints on the sales prices of goods that we have supplied, or engage in any other unfair trading practices. 
(5) We will observe laws and internal company regulations, avoid improper expressions in advertising and publicity activities of the company and our products and services, and use fair and appropriate representations and expressions in accordance with social justice and public order and good morals. 
(6) When we collect information, we will use proper means and act fairly and appropriately
3 

in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. We will strive to maintain the confidentiality of customers’ confidential and personal information. 
(7) We will enter clear and lawful contracts in an appropriate and rational manner. 
(8) When we enter contracts, we will examine individual transaction terms based on a solid understanding of the risks and costs with the assistance of relevant personnel and experts as necessary, and carry out the contract process in accordance with company procedural rules. 

1.3 Procurement Activities 
(1) We will strive to build good partnerships with suppliers, and to maintain and improve long-term relationships of mutual understanding and trust. 
(2) We will strive to develop optimal suppliers from a broad view worldwide, and to maintain competition. 
(3) We will select suppliers appropriately and fairly. In selecting suppliers, in addition to considering the quality, reliability, delivery dates and prices of materials as well as the management stability and technological development strengths of the suppliers, we will also give due consideration to their fulfillment of social responsibility including fair and highly transparent information disclosure, observance of laws and social norms, respect of human rights, elimination of unfair discrimination concerning employment and workplaces, elimination of child labor and forced labor, environmental protection activities, social contribution activities, creation of pleasant workplaces, and sharing of awareness about social responsibility with business partners. 
(4) We will not accept any personal benefits from suppliers concerning procurement transactions. 
(5) We will deal impartially and fairly with all suppliers. We will also strive to maintain the confidentiality of suppliers’ confidential and personal information. 
(6) We will manage procurement activities through appropriate procedures in accordance with internal company regulations. 

1.4Respect of the Hitachi Chemical Brand 
(1) We will position the brand as an important management asset, and take actions to protect and enhance the value of the Hitachi Chemical brand and have it recognized by society. 

1.5 Observance of Engineering Ethics 
(1) As engineers, when faced with a situation deemed contrary to our mission in the course of carrying out our work, we will give top priority to public safety, health and welfare. We will make every possible effort to guarantee product safety to ensure that product liability problems caused by products, systems and services do not occur, and strive to secure superior functions, performance and reliability.
4 

(2) As engineers, we will work for global environmental protection and the effective utilization of resources to maximize the sustainability of human society. 
(3) As engineers, we will always exercise judgment based on the facts from an objective perspective with honest, sincere and impartial responsibility. When we find it difficult to resolve problems as individual engineers, we will seek opinions from relevant persons inside and outside the company and knowledgeable third parties and experts, and jointly work to resolve the problems. 
(4) As engineers, we will always strive to increase the transparency of information that affects the public, society and the environment, and to swiftly provide accurate information in cooperation with the relevant parties inside and outside the company. 
(5) As engineers, we will observe our duty to maintain confidentiality. When confidential information includes information that might have a material effect on the public, society or the environment, however, we will work to disclose the information in a timely and appropriate manner. 
(6) As engineers, we will respect other parties’ intellectual properties as well as our own intellectual properties. We will build smooth cooperative relations with other parties and work to establish a fair market environment. 
(7) As engineers, we will respect the cultures, religions, customs, systems and diversity of value systems of other peoples, nations and regions, and strive to share joy with the people of the world through technology. 
(8) As engineers, we will pursue self-improvement and continue to lead the world with technology in the future. 

Chapter 2 Environmental Protection 
2.1 Promoting Environmental Management 
(1) We recognize the roles we should play and will carry out each of them to conduct monozukuri aimed at reducing the environmental burden of a product throughout its life cycle—from procurement of materials to production, distribution, use, and appropriate disposal—in order to realize a sustainable society in harmony with the environment. 
(2) We will strive to conduct business management and operations observing environmental laws and regulations, as well as voluntary standards. 
2.2 Promoting Environmentally Conscious Business Activities and Environmental Management 
(1) We will actively develop environmentally conscious products and services that give consideration to the prevention of global warming, cyclical use of resources, and the preservation of ecosystems. 
(2) We will actively pursue the prevention of global warming, cyclical use of resources, and the preservation of ecosystems at our plants and offices. 
(3) We will evaluate the potential for environmental problems, strive to prevent the
5 

occurrence of environmental problems, and quickly implement appropriate measures that minimize the environmental load whenever environmental problems occur. 

2.3 Communication with Stakeholders 
(1) We will pursue information disclosure and dialogue regarding environmental activities to create a sustainable society together with stakeholders. 

Chapter 3 Relations with Society 
3.1 Disclosure of Company Information 
(1) We will place importance on the process of dialogue with a wide range of stakeholders regarding information required by society, listen to various opinions and negative information about the company and Hitachi Chemical Group companies, respond to them sincerely on our own initiative, and promote two-way communication with society. 
(2) We will respond sincerely to crises that occur and disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner, even when this information is negative or disadvantageous to the company. 

3.2 Contribution to Local Communities 
(1) We will carry out social contribution activities, centered on activities to foster personnel who will lead the reforms of the next era, to realize a vibrant society by making the greatest possible use of our resources. By implementing social contribution activities, we aim to be a respected and trusted global enterprise of the 21st century. 

3.3 Relations with Politics and Government Administration 
(1) We will establish sound relations with politics and government administration. In particular, we will observe ethical regulations concerning public servants. 
(2) We will not engage in any bribery of public servants (including foreign public servants and parties legally regarded as public servants), or engage in any similar activities to propose, promise or provide unfair profits. We will also refrain from any conduct that might be construed as constituting bribery or similar activities. 
(3) We will not engage in any activities that impair the fairness of public tenders. 
(4) We will make donations and join outside organizations fairly and appropriately. 

3.4 Prevention of Anti-social Transactions* 
(1) We will have no relations whatsoever with anti-social forces such as organized crime groups, and we will never engage in anti-social transactions under any circumstances. 
(2) We will prevent anti-social transactions through self-inspection of our transactions. 
(3) We will oppose anti-social forces such as organized crime groups with firm resolve, and refuse any improper demands. 

* Transactions with anti-social forces such as organized crime groups6 
3.5 Regarding Gifts, Business Entertainment, Etc. 
(1) We will not ask suppliers, customers or other parties to make gifts of money or goods to employees or their families. 
(2) We will not present gifts of money or goods to suppliers, customers, the employees of other companies, or other parties that have or might be viewed as having a direct influence on trading relations with our company. 
(3) We will conduct business entertainment within the range of common practice. 
(4) We will respond cautiously to offers of business entertainment from suppliers and customers, and report all such offers to our superiors for consultation in advance. We will decline on the spot any offers of extravagant or high-priced entertainment that transcend the bounds of conventional wisdom. 

3.6 Observance of Laws and Regulations and Respect of the Culture and Customs of Each Nation and Region 
(1) In our business activities in all nations and regions, we will respect the culture and customs of each nation and region, and pursue open and honest conduct in accordance with the relevant governing laws and regulations in each nation and region. We will also contribute to economic, social and environmental progress for the sustainable development of each nation and region. In nations and regions where domestic laws or their enforcement conflict with international standards of conduct, we will strive to give the greatest possible respect to international standards of conduct. 
(2) We will not engage in or be involved with any improper commercial transactions in any nation or region. We will also exercise due caution to avert any relations with organized crime, and observe the laws and regulations governing money laundering (the laundering of illicit funds gained from criminal activities, etc.). 

Chapter 4 Respect of Human Rights 
4.1 Promoting Respect of Human Rights 
(1) We will respect international standards of conduct regarding human rights, and strive to ensure that we do not engage in any conduct that obstructs or interferes with human rights. 
4.2 Eliminating Discrimination 
(1) We will respect every person’s character and individuality in the recruitment and 

treatment of employees, the conduct of commercial transactions, and all other company activities, and not engage in any acts that impair individual dignity or discriminate on the basis of sex, age, nationality, race, ethnicity, ideology, belief, religion, social status, family origin, disease, disability, etc.7 
4.3 Respect of Human Rights in Information Management 
(1) We will establish information ethics based on consideration of human rights and the maintenance of security in information handling, to prevent in advance the emergence of problems from personal information leaks, computer viruses, and unauthorized access. 
4.4 Respect of Basic Rights at Work 
(1) We will advance employment with proper consideration for corporate social responsibility. We will hire employees in accordance with the governing domestic, foreign and local laws in each country and region. We will not use child labor that employs children below the minimum working age or coerced labor that is against the will of the workers. 
(2) We will conduct procurement with proper consideration for corporate social responsibility, and will not procure goods or services from enterprises that utilize child labor or forced labor. 
(3) Considering the laws and regulations and labor practices in each nation and region, and respecting the basic rights of employees presented as the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we will strive to have employees and managers better understand each other’s problems and resolve issues jointly through genuine and constructive dialogue. 

Chapter 5 Management Foundations 
5.1 Management and Use of Information 
(1) We will conduct appropriate management of all processes related to the life cycle of confidential information including information production, acquisition, confidentiality management, sharing and disclosure, storage and preservation, use, and disposal, and observe the protection of confidential Information, and appropriate use of information equipment to prevent incidents from information leaks and improper information use. 
(2) We will protect information assets in accordance with the Information Security Policy. 
(3) We will manage confidential information appropriately in accordance with internal company regulations. 
(4) We will fully respect the rights and value of confidential information that belong to the company or other parties. We will observe these Codes of Conduct and related regulations, and appropriately manage and handle the company’s confidential information and confidential information disclosed to us by other parties, to prevent any information leaks that might cause damages to the company or other parties or constitute breach of contract or legal violations. 
(5) We will follow the specified procedures and arrange appropriate measures for the maintenance of confidentiality such as nondisclosure agreements when disclosing the company’s confidential information to other parties. 
(6) We will acquire confidential information that belongs to other parties only when 
8 

necessary for the conduct of the company’s business, using fair and appropriate methods (contracts, etc.) in light of fair business practices. We absolutely will not acquire such confidential information through improper means.When we have acquired other parties’ trade secrets, we will strictly manage them as stipulated by the relevant contracts and implement the necessary measures after the relevant contracts have expired. 
(7) We recognize the importance of protecting personal information, and we will handle personal information appropriately in accordance with the company’s Personal Information Protection Policy. 
(8) We will organize and store documents, electronic files, records and other types of information. We will appropriately store documents and electronic files whose processing is complete, and destroy them by suitable means when their storage periods have expired. 

5.2 Use of Inside Information and Related Considerations 
(1) We will always take care to prevent leaks of company information. We will not disclose to third parties material confidential information regarding the company, our related companies or business partners (subsidiaries, affiliated companies, investee companies, contract partners, or companies with which we are negotiating contracts), or customers. 
(2) When we learn undisclosed information regarding the company, our related companies or business partners, and customers that might affect the judgment of investors (insider information), we will not trade shares of the company, our related companies or business partners, or customers until the insider information is disclosed. We will exercise discretion in stock and other transactions in cases when it is not clear if the information constitutes insider information. 

5.3 Management and Preservation of Company Assets 
(1) We will actively create intellectual properties, protect them appropriately, and strive for their effective use. We recognize that the intellectual property rights to intellectual works created in relation with work duties at the company will all revert to the company as provided by the relevant laws, and we will follow the provisions of the related internal company regulations and the directions of the company for the appropriate protection of the company’s rights, and for their use. 
(2) We will respect the intellectual property of other parties. We will prevent violations of other parties’ intellectual property rights in advance and, for the smooth progress of business, we will investigate other parties’ intellectual property rights beforehand when engaged in research, development, design, production and sales of new products or new technologies, and implement appropriate measures when any doubts arise. 
(3) We will not infringe other parties’ copyrights regarding use of software and the Internet. For example, we will not install, use or duplicate software in violation of the terms of 
9 

license agreements. We will manage software so that it is used correctly as a company asset. 
(4) We will use the company’s tangible assets (land, buildings, facilities, equipment, products, office equipment, cash and deposits, negotiable securities, etc.) efficiently for business activities. We will observe company rules to prevent improper use, loss and theft. 
(5) We will not engage in any acts that damage the value of tangible or intangible company assets, including financial assets, through improper use, personal use, etc. 
(6) We will act to ensure that all business judgments and business activities are the best choices for the company, and we will not form any financial or other trading relations with suppliers, customers, or competitors that would conflict with the best interests of the company. 
(7) We will implement fair accounting practices and proper information recording and reporting. We will also accurately and clearly record and report research findings, inspection data, business performance and other documents on a factual basis. 

5.4 Arranging a Work Environment That Draws Out Employee Strengths 
(1) We will comply with the relevant labor laws and regulations governing employment, personnel affairs, working conditions, wages and other employment terms, etc. 
(2) We will respect the human rights of individual employees, and manage personnel records strictly with close attention to protecting personal information and privacy rights. We will absolutely refrain from any sort of sexual harassment or power harassment that violates human rights. 
(3) We will strive to secure workplace safety based on the approach of giving priority to the protection of safety and health above all else. 
(4) We will act to promote physical and mental health. We will give consideration not only to our own health, but also to the health of those around us. 
(5) We will work to create workplaces where every individual employee can work with the sense that his or her work is worthwhile. We will support a work-life balance by realizing diverse working styles and using various types of vacation systems. We will also strive to create a workplace environment where employees can take leaves for pregnancy, childbirth, child-raising, and family nursing care as necessary. 
(6) We will always strive to pursue self-improvement and make our best efforts so that we can manifest our greatest potential. Superiors will give their subordinates appropriate management, guidance, and training to extend their capabilities. 

5.5 Observance of Laws and Regulations Governing Imports and Exports 
(1) We will observe all related laws and regulations when conducting exports not only of products but also of all kinds of cargo and technologies. 
(2) We will conduct effective export control in accordance with internal company regulations 
10 

by being certain to confirm the end-use and end-users, even for domestic sales. 
(3) We will observe all related laws and regulations when conducting imports. 

Chapter 6 Complete Observance of Codes of Conduct 
6.1 Complete Observance of Rules 
(1) We will strive to always provide our employees with information on the relevant laws and internal company regulations required for the conduct of business. Every section will implement employee education regarding the relevant laws and regulations. We will revise internal company regulations and inform employees when concerned laws or regulations are revised, and when the company advances into new businesses, or new nations or regions. 
(2) We will always observe laws and regulations and act fairly under any conditions, in accordance with these Codes of Conduct. 
(3) We will immediately report to or consult with our superiors or the relevant sections whenever we suspect we might be violating laws or internal company regulations, and devise the necessary corrective actions. Similarly, we will immediately report to or consult with our superiors or the relevant sections whenever we suspect that the actions of others may not be in accordance with laws or internal company regulations. 
(4) We will always note that rules change with the times, and act with good common sense under the principle of “Basics and Ethics.” 
(5) We will take strict measures whenever employees act in violation of relevant laws or regulations, including disciplinary dismissal in light of the reprimand provisions of the Employment Regulations. 

6.2 Implementation of Self-Audits 
(1) We will implement self-audits to confirm that internal company procedures are being properly executed in accordance with the relevant laws and internal company regulations. 

6.3 Internal Reporting System 
(1) We will establish a system for employee reporting of illegal, unfair and improper acts concerning the business of the company or its Group companies. When reports are made, we will examine the facts and implement corrective measures as necessary. We will use this system for complete observance of laws and regulations, and to conduct corporate activities with a high ethical viewpoint. 
(2) We will not engage in any prejudicial treatment of individuals who submit reports, except in cases of bad-faith reports that are malicious slander or libel. When individuals who submit reports are involved in illegal activities, the individual concerned will not be exempted from responsibility through the provision of information, but the fact that the individual has provided information will be taken into consideration as extenuating 11 
circumstances. 
Chapter 7 Responsibilities of Top Management 
(1) Top management will personally take the lead in striving for business operations with corporate ethics and compliance as the main axis, in accordance with these Codes of Conduct. When violations of these Codes of Conduct occur, top management will personally devise corrective measures and strive to prevent recurrence. Top management will also fulfill responsibility for explanation and for swift and accurate information disclosure, and implement strict measures against illegal acts, including measures on itself. In addition, top management will encourage suppliers and other supply chain partners to promote business operations with corporate ethics and compliance as the main axis. 
Supplementary Provision Hitachi Chemical Group Implementation of Codes of Conduct 
The Hitachi Chemical Group Codes of Conduct shall apply to all officers and employees of Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. All subject companies shall set or revise these Codes of Conduct as the “Hitachi Chemical Group Codes of Conduct” or as the codes of conduct of their own company at a board of directors meeting or other decision-making organ of the company, and take appropriate measures so that all their officers and employees accurately understand these Codes of Conduct. 
Companies may also enact their own individual codes of conduct, incorporating the contents of these Codes of Conduct. Such individual codes of conduct can alter the contents in accordance with the legal systems, social customs and business characteristics of their respective nations or regions, or add stipulations that are not included in these Codes of Conduct. However, those individual stipulations may not under any circumstances contradict the stipulations of these Codes of Conduct or relax their contents. 
When companies do establish individual codes of conduct, those codes of conduct must expressly stipulate that they have been prepared based on or referring to the Hitachi Chemical Group Codes of Conduct. 
Enacted on September 30 , 2010
IAP
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

IAP STATEMENT ON BIOSECURITY
Knowledge without conscience is simply the ruin of the soul.
F. Rabelais, 15321
In recent decades scientific research has created new and unexpected knowledge and technologies that offer unprecedented opportunities to improve human and animal health and environmental conditions. But some science and technology can be used for destructive purposes as well as for constructive purposes. Scientists have a special responsibility when it comes to problems of "dual use" and the misuse of science and technology.
The 1972 Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention reinforced the international norm prohibiting biological weapons, stating in its provisions that "each state party to this Convention undertakes never in any circumstances to develop, produce, stockpile or otherwise acquire or retain: microbial or other biological agents, or toxins whatever their origin or method of production, of types and in quantities that have no justification for prophylactic or other peaceful purposes." Nevertheless, the threat from biological weapons is again a live issue. This statement presents principles to guide individual scientists and local scientific communities that may wish to define a code of conduct for their own use.
These principles represent fundamental issues that should be taken into account when formulating codes of conduct. They are not intended to be a comprehensive list of considerations.

1.  Awareness. Scientists have an obligation to do no harm. They should always take into consideration the reasonably foreseeable consequences of their own activities. They should therefore:
    always bear in mind the potential consequences – possibly harmful – of their research and recognize that individual good conscience does not justify ignoring the possible misuse of their scientific endeavour;
    refuse to undertake research that has only harmful consequences for humankind.

2.  Safety and Security. Scientists working with agents such as pathogenic organisms or dangerous toxins have a responsibility to use good, safe and secure laboratory procedures, whether codified by law or common practice.2

3.  Education and Information. Scientists should be aware of, disseminate information about and teach national and international laws and regulations, as well as policies and principles aimed at preventing the misuse of biological research.
4.  Accountability. Scientists who become aware of activities that violate the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention or international customary law should raise their concerns with appropriate people, authorities and agencies.
5.  Oversight. Scientists with responsibility for oversight of research or for evaluation of projects or publications should promote adherence to these principles by those under their control, supervision or evaluation and act as role models in this regard.

These principles have been endorsed by the following national academies of science, working through the InterAcademy Panel:
    Albanian Academy of Sciences
    National Academy of Exact, Physical  and Natural Sciences,  Argentina
    The National Academy of Sciences of Armenia
    Australian Academy of Science
    Austrian Academy of Sciences
    Bangladesh Academy of Sciences
    National Academy of Sciences of Belarus
    The Royal Academies for Science and the Arts of Belgium
    Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina
    Brazilian Academy of Sciences
    Bulgarian Academy of Sciences
    Cameroon Academy of Sciences
    The Royal Society of Canada
    Chinese Academy of Sciences
    Academia Sinica, China Taiwan
    Colombian Academy of Exact, Physical and Natural Sciences
    Croatian Academy of Arts and Sciences
    Cuban Academy of Sciences
    Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic
    Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters
    Academy of Scientific Research and Technology, Egypt
    Estonian Academy of Sciences
    The Delegation of the Finnish Academies of Science and Letters
    Académie des Sciences, France
    Union of German Academies of Sciences and Humanities
    Academy of Athens, Greece
    Hungarian Academy of Sciences
    Indian National Science Academy
    Indonesian Academy of Sciences
    Royal Irish Academy
    Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities
    Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Italy
    Science Council of Japan
    African Academy of Sciences
    Kenya National Academy of Sciences
    The National Academy of Sciences, The Republic of Korea
    National Academy of Sciences of the Kyrgyz Republic
    Latvian Academy of Sciences
    Lithuanian Academy of Sciences
    Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts
    Akademi Sains Malaysia
    Academia Mexicana de Ciencias
    Academy of the Kingdom of Morocco
    The Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences
    Academy Council of the Royal Society of New Zealand
    Nigerian Academy of Sciences
    Pakistan Academy of Sciences
    Palestine Academy for Science and Technology
    Academia Nacional de Ciencias del Peru
    National Academy of Science and Technology, Philippines
    Polska Akademia Nauk, Poland
    Russian Academy of Sciences
    Académie des Sciences et Techniques du Sénégal
    Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts
    Singapore National Academy of Sciences
    Slovak Academy of Sciences
    Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts
    Academy of Science of South Africa
    Royal Academy of Exact, Physical and Natural Sciences of Spain
    Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
    Council of the Swiss Scientific Academies
    Turkish Academy of Sciences
    The Uganda National Academy of Sciences
    The Royal Society, UK
    US National Academy of Sciences
    Academia de Ciencias Físicas, Matemáticas y Naturales de Venezuela
    Zimbabwe Academy of Sciences
    TWAS, the Academy of Sciences for the Developing World

1  "Science sans conscience n’est que ruine de l’âme."
2  Such as the WHO Laboratory Biosafety Manual, Second Edition (Revised).
 
IAP Statement on Biosecurity    7 November 2005
ICL (Israel Chemicals Ltd.)
Region: WEOG
Country: Israel
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

ICL
Code of Ethics
Pursuing Excellence with Integrity  
Our 
Values
Obey the Law, Regulations, rofessional Rules, Procedures and Compliance Programs
All employees, officers and directors of ICL are obligated to comply at all times and unconditionally with the requirements of all applicable laws, regulations, professional rules, ICL’s procedures and compliance programs, applicable to their area of activity at ICL. No employee is ever required, as part of his or her duties to ICL, to violate any legal requirements or professional rules applicable to him or her. Remember – obeying the law and the Code of Ethics always serves the interests of ICL and its employees in the most favorable manner.
 Fairness in Business
We are direct, honest, transparent and fair in all our business dealings.
Responsibility
We take full responsibility for our actions and performance, and for meeting our stakeholders' expectations.
Excellence and Constant Improvement
We always strive to be the best. We encourage everyone who works with us – our people, our clients, our suppliers, our business partners – to excel. We ensure that in the work we do, our processes and service delivery are of the highest quality. We are demanding of ourselves and of others, and remain open to constructive criticism and suggestions for improvement.
Respect towards Others
We treat everyone with courtesy and respect, value differing opinions, embrace diversity and give people the latitude to express themselves, care about people's well-being, and respect the need for life outside work.
 
Commitment to Safety
ICL is committed to protecting the health and safety of all the people who play a part in our operations or live in the communities in which we operate. We will not be satisfied until we succeed in eliminating all injuries, occupational illnesses, and unsafe conditions.
Commitment to the Environment
Wherever we operate, we will conduct our business with respect and care for both the local and global environment, and systematically manage risks to drive sustainable business growth. We will not
be satisfied until we succeed in eliminating incidents of environmental harm from our activities. We seek to continuously improve the environmental performance of our products and our operations.
 What is
a Code of Ethics?
Ethics refers to the principles that direct us as we ask ourselves what is the appropriate and correct way to act when faced with a dilemma or a situation for which there are no rules or guidelines.
The Code of Ethics of a company is a document that expresses the core values  of the company and establishes guidelines for ethical and appropriate conduct for employees of the company, in all ranks and positions.
Every day, each one of us is required to make decisions that have ethical
implications. The Code of Ethics is meant to guide us when confronted with ethical dilemmas, and help us make the right decisions, which reflect the values of ICL and align us throughout the Company. The Code will be strictly enforced and violations will be dealt with immediately.
 All of us - employees, members of management and members of the Board of Directors of ICL, are obligated to act in accordance with ICL’s Code of Ethics, with respect to each of our decisions within the Company.
The following paragraphs portray the values and principles of ICL and the way we apply them to the various areas of ICL’s
activities, divided into five chapters: ICL and its employees - referring to the Company’s relationship and obligations towards its employees; Proper use and preservation of Company property; Conducting business with honesty and integrity - referring to
our relationships with various external entities; Our commitment to protecting the environment; and Our commitment to the communities where we operate.
Summary Content
of Our Code of Ethics
 

ICL and its Employees
Employment rights
Health and safety in the work environment Prevention of discrimination and harassment Respect towards each other
Employee privacy
 Working in accordance with the compliance programs and procedures
Avoiding conflicts of interest
Proper Use and Preservation of Company Property
Protecting the property of ICL Protecting ICL's confidentiality
Conducting Business with Honesty and Integrity
ICL and its customers, suppliers and business partners Contractor employees
Competing in the business arena
Reporting and dealing with governmental authorities Bribery and Corruption
Commitment to Protecting the Environment Commitment to the Communities Where We Operate
ICL and its Employees
ICL’s success is attributed to the skills, diligence and dedication of its employees. We value our people as ICL’s most important asset.
Employment Rights
A fundamental condition for ICL’s continued growth, development and advancement is the respect and honour of the rights of our employees.
Health and Safety in the Work Environment
A person’s life and health are of prime value and we are unconditionally committed to this principle. ICL is committed to provide
a safe and healthy work environment for its employees. In no circumstance do we compromise with regard to matters of safety.
We must perform our job functions cautiously, because nothing justifies placing the lives of our employees at risk. Violations of safety procedures endanger all of us.


ICL is committed to provide a safe and healthy work environment for all the people who play a
part in our operations. In no circumstance do we compromise with regard to matters of safety.
 Prevention of Discrimination and Harassment
We are committed to respecting and protecting legally established human rights wherever we operate.
Discrimination or harassment in any form will not be tolerated. Not only is it
prohibited by law, but it contradicts the type of work environment that we at ICL strive to create.
Therefore, we, the employees, officers and directors at ICL will have no tolerance for any discrimination and harassment in any form, through actions or words, under any circumstances.
Furthermore, ICL supports the provision of equal opportunities to all its employees and candidates for employment, with no distinction or discrimination.
Therefore we, the employees, officers and directors at ICL will refrain from, and
oppose discrimination of any kind, against any person, including, among others, on the basis of religion, race, ethnic origin, nationality, sex, sexual orientation, age, gender reassignment or disability.
 ICL supports the provision of equal opportunities to all its employees and candidates for employment, with no distinction or discrimination.
Bringing the Code to Life…
Q: One of the contractors we work with has invited me to a party which he is holding. Should I attend?
A: With respect to gifts and personal favours such as the described event, you must comply with company policy on the matter. If you have any doubts, consult with your direct manager, a member of the Personnel Department, the Compliance Officer or the Ethics Committee, if one exists in your organization.
Bringing the Code to Life…
Q: There is an employee in our team, who suffers from a speech disorder, and sounds funny when he talks. Some of the people in the team tease him and make fun of him. I don’t want to start a fight with them, but I feel bad for him. What should I do?
A: Our Code of Ethics states: “We, the employees, officers and directors at ICL will have no tolerance for any discrimination and harassment in  any  form,  through  actions  or  words,  under  any  circumstances.”
Therefore, you must not stand by, when such harassment is going on.
If possible, do what you can to protect the new employee and be sure to report the incident to your direct manager, a member of the Personnel Department, the Compliance Officer or the Ethics Committee, if one exists in your organization.
Respect Towards Each Other
We, ICL’s employees and officers will respect our fellow employees, and will treat each other with courtesy and fairness.
Employee Privacy
We respect the privacy of our employees and therefore do not disclose to any unauthorized party any information that is likely to infringe upon any other person’s privacy.
Working in Accordance With ICL’s Compliance Programs and Procedures
ICL has a number of internal compliance programs. These programs are intended to clarify legal provisions and procedures and to establish a mechanism to ensure their observance. Following these programs and procedures is not only required as part of our employment with ICL, but it is the basis for our continued organizational excellence and long-term sustainability, growth and advancement.
Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
We must avoid actual or apparent conflicts of interests between our role in ICL and our personal interests, including the following:
We will not request, accept, offer or provide any gift, personal benefit or favour from or to customers, suppliers, vendors or any other party having any connection to ICL, except as provided in the relevant Company procedure.
We refrain from providing any personal favour to an employee, officer or director of the Company, or to their relatives, except for personal gifts
of a reasonable and normal scale in honour of personal or family events, as provided in the relevant Company procedure.
No employee, director or officer may compete with the Company. Competing with the Company may involve engaging in the same line of business as the Company or any situation in which the employee, officer or director takes an opportunity from the Company for sales or purchases of property, products, services or other interests.
 Bringing the Code to Life…
Q: One of the contractors we work with has invited me to his son’s wedding. Should I attend?
A: Personal relationships between our employees and the contractors they work with are a natural thing, which the company sees positively. However, in order to prevent the appearance of impropriety, you must comply with company policy, with respect to the gift you will bring to the event. If you have any doubts, consult with your direct manager, a member of the Personnel Department, the Compliance Officer or the Ethics Committee, if one exists in your organization.
We do not take advantage for personal gain, any business opportunities that come to our attention in the framework of being an employee, officer or director of ICL.
Bringing the Code to Life…
Q: In the framework of my job at ICL, I have a relationship with suppliers of the company. Would it be O.K. for me to purchase products from them at the price they give ICL?
A: Our Code of Ethics states: “We do not take advantage for personal gain, any business opportunities that come to our attention in the framework of
being an employee, officer or director of ICL…” If this offer is not provided
by the supplier to all ICL employees and is not approved by ICL, it would be inappropriate for you to benefit from it.
In any event of a conflict of interests, actual or potential, the matter should be referred to your direct manager, a member of the Personnel Department, the Compliance Officer or the Ethics Committee, if one exists in your place of work for further instruction.
Proper Use and Preservation of Company
Property
We, employees, officers and directors of ICL act at all times in good faith and for the benefit of ICL.
Protecting the Property of ICL
ICL has physical property (such as buildings, equipment etc.) and intangible property (such as information, contracts, trade secrets, patents etc.). We must protect them for the benefit of ICL and its employees.
Our actions with respect to the Company’s property should include, but should not be limited to, the following:
We will always ensure that the property of ICL is used efficiently to advance the goals of the Company.
We will use any reasonable means required to prevent theft, negligent handling or waste of Company property, and report any breach of security or improper activity to the appropriate person.
We will not pursue any personal interests on the Company’s premises, or while using ICL property, equipment or assets, unless approval has been received from Company management.
 Protecting ICL’s Confidentiality
In the modern and competitive business world, every piece of information with which we come in contact in the scope of our work may have great value to competitors, investors or to the general
public. Protecting all information within the Company from leaking out, significantly and directly contributes to our success.
We must keep any information we encounter in the course of our
responsibilities within ICL, which has not been publicly disclosed by the
Company, in the highest confidence, and act in accordance with ICL’s policies and procedures regarding this matter.
Trading ICL securities while in possession of non-public information is governed by our Securities Policy on insider trading.
 Conducting Business with
Honesty and Integrity
ICL and all its employees, officers and directors conduct business in a fair and honest manner.
ICL’s reputation is based on the trust that our stakeholders (i.e., all the people and entities which affect the Company or
are affected by it, including employees, customers, suppliers and business partners, competitors, governmental authorities,
the communities in which we operate, the physical environment etc.) put in ICL.
Our conduct every day and each decision we make in the framework of our role at ICL can help build this trust or destroy it.
ICL and its Customers, Suppliers and Business Partners
Our relationships with our customers, suppliers and business partners are a corner stone in our ability to operate and preserve our long-term success. We are committed to maintaining their trust in ICL and treat them with respect, honesty and integrity.
We honour our agreements and practice good faith and decency in our negotiations with all parties.
 Contractor Employees
Contracted employees include leased employees and third-party employees whom the Company has engaged to carry out non-core services on its premises.
We view the contractor employees and service providers that work alongside us as our long term partners, honour and uphold all the rights provided to them by law and treat them with respect, courtesy and fairness.
Competing in the Business Arena
ICL values the importance of free market competition and complies with all legal requirements pertaining to fair competition. We do not slander or defame our competitors, their actions or their products. All relevant employees must be familiar with the relevant and applicable antitrust laws, as well as the Company’s policy and procedures pertaining to this matter.
Reporting and Dealing with Governmental Authorities
ICL respects its relationships with governmental and official authorities, and complies with all the laws, regulations and standards applicable to its operations. As
a public company, ICL has a responsibility to provide full and accurate information  in its public disclosures about its financial condition and results of its operations.
ICL’s reports and documents filed with or submitted to the Israel Securities
Authority and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and its other public communications shall include full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure.
Bribery and Corruption
ICL is committed to conducting its business based on quality and integrity.
We will not tolerate any kind of improper influence on decision makers, including but not limited to offers of bribery or any other illegal activity.
We will never offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form – directly or indirectly.
Commitment to Protecting
the Environment
We at ICL are committed to preserving the environment, and preventing damage to natural resources. We make constant effort to reduce our negative impacts on the environment.
As a basis to this, we are committed to upholding the various rules of law, that direct ICL’s activities and are intended to protect the public good and prevent environmental pollution and any legislation applicable to our operations.
Commitment to Communities
Where We Operate
We see great value in maintaining an ongoing dialogue with the members of the communities in our areas of
operation. We act constantly in order to minimize any damage or impairment to the quality of life of the members of the communities wherever we operate and actively invest in various projects and programs designed to improve their lives.
How Should the Code
of Ethics Be Used?
Application and Implementation
In the various areas of the ICL’s activity, there are statutes, regulations and legal standards that bind the Company’s employees and management. In addition, ICL maintains internal guidelines, procedures and compliance programs, which contain many rules of conduct that instruct employees how to act in situations they encounter in the course of their work.
Obeying the law and all relevant procedures and regulations is the underlying
basis, upon which we build our rules of ethical conduct, and is the fundamental expectation from ICL and each one of its employees. The Code of Ethics is not intended to replace these statutes,
regulations, guidelines and procedures, nor does it cover every possible situation you might encounter. It is intended to reflect the principles and values that we wish to uphold, and to be a compass, designed to lead you in the right path.
Read the Code of Ethics carefully and discuss it with your fellow employees and
your managers. It is meant to assist you in your decisions and daily activities during the course of your work.
If you have any doubt about the right course of action in a certain situation, if you encounter a circumstance where the procedures of the Code of Ethics or application thereof is unclear, or if you
become concerned that an activity may be in violation of the Code of Ethics, or of applicable law, rules or regulations, you should refer the problem to your superior
or to the person responsible for compliance in the Company, who will either handle
the matter according to procedure or refer the problem to the person authorised to address it.
Your enquiry will be handled quickly, soundly and with discretion. As long as your enquiry is made in good faith, you can be assured that your standing in the Company will not be harmed or damaged.
 Internal Application
The ICL Group is a multi-national group operating in many countries. ICL and its employees respect the various cultures,  laws and customs prevalent in the countries in which ICL operates. This Code of Ethics, with the applicable amendments and relevant adaptations to local laws, shall bind the Company, its officers and employees in every country in which ICL operates.
Implementation of Our Code of Ethics
The Code of Ethics was adopted by the boards of directors and managements of ICL and its business divisions. It is part of the proper management culture of the Company. Each employee, officer and
director of the Company must strive, to the best of their ability, in the scope of their authority and responsibilities, towards full implementation of the Code of Ethics of the Company at every level of the organisation.
A waiver of the provisions of this Code for executive officers or directors may only be granted by the Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, and will be promptly disclosed to the Company’s shareholders.
What Happens If…?
The following chart demonstrates the process that you should follow when you think you are confronted with an ethical dilemma:
‘Rules of Thumb for Ethical Conduct’
If you are unsure about the way in which you should act in the situation before you, remember that the primary rules
of ethics can be summarised with three simple questions regarding the method of behaviour you may choose:
If the circumstances were reversed, would you want to be treated, with regard to your rights or your property, in the same manner in which you are about to act with regard to others’ rights, money or property?
If your manner of conduct would be publicized or disclosed to the public, would you and ICL be criticized for your actions?
If the public would scrutinise your
actions, and knowing all the facts, would your actions and the actions of ICL be deemed proper, honourable and reasonable?
In any circumstances of doubt or suspicion of non-compliance with the provisions of the Code of Ethics, notify your direct manager, a member of the Personnel Department, the Compliance Officer or the Ethics Committee, if one exists in your organization.
Millennium Tower, 23 Aranha St. (Headquarters) P.O.Box 20245, Tel Aviv 6107025, Israel
Tel +972 (0)3 684 4400 Fax +972 (0)3 684 4444
E-mail: contact@icl-group.com www.icl-group.com
Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: India
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

“I AM, BY PROFESSION, A CHEMICAL ENGINEER. In my profession I take great pride, but without vainglory; to it I owe solemn obligations that I am eager to fulfill. As a member of engineering community, I am here to create a new world that never has been and see the world that has been given to me by my predecessors. I have been taught to conserve material and energy by which I will live to welcome the next generation and hand over the heritage to the fledgling members of my profession.
As a chemical engineer, I will participate and advance none but honest enterprise and be both a benefactor and beneficiary. To him that has engaged my services, as employer and client, I will give the sincerest of my performance, integrity and fidelity. I know my efforts will be a drop in ocean but ocean shall we have through collective wisdom and knowledge of all members of my profession.
            When called, my skill and knowledge shall be given without reservation and prejudice for the good of not only human kind but also other members of the biosphere. From special capacity springs the obligation to use it well in the service of humanity; I accept the challenge that this implies. Well equipped now, I am ever eager to serve my profession as a member of the Indian Institute of Chemical Engineer. I shall never close my eyes to new ideas and knowledge and change any erroneous practices that might have served my profession to-date.
            Zealous of the high repute of my calling, I will strive to protect the interests and the good name of any engineer that I know to be deserving; but I will not shrink, should duty dictate, from disclosing the truth regarding anyone that, by unscrupulous act, has shown himself unworthy of the profession.
            Since antiquity, human progress has been conditioned by the genius of my professional forebears. By them have been rendered usable to mankind Nature’s vast resources of material and energy. By them have been vitalized and turned to practical account the principles of science, engineering and the revelations of technology. Except for this heritage of accumulated experience, my efforts would be feeble and lost. My vision has been sharpened as a result of this and it is my bounden duty to protect the environment and be in harmony with nature. I will strive hard to overcome ignorance and prejudice and bestow the benefit of my knowledge on younger generation so that they improve upon my mistakes to make this world a better place to live. I dedicate myself to the dissemination of engineering knowledge, and, especially to the instructions of younger members of my profession in all its arts, ethos and traditions.
I am seized of the great challenge which our profession is going to face in future and that it to use our skills to improve the quality of life-foster employment, advance economic and social development and protect environment. This challenge encompasses the essence of sustainable development. I will work with others to make the world a better place for future generations.
            As a chemical engineer, it will be my endeavour to design processes and products which are innovative, energy-efficient and cost-effective, make the best use of scarce resources and ensure that waste and adverse environmental impact are minimized; achieve the biggest standards of safety in making and using products of all kinds; provide the processes and products which give the people of the world, shelter, clothing, food and drink, and which keep them in good health; work with other disciplines to seek solutions; engage in honest and open dialogue with the public on challenges presented by manufacture of the products which the public requires; promote research to allow the profession to respond fully to global demands; encourage the brightest and best young people into the profession; and promote lifelong professional development. I acknowledge that this challenge cannot be met by my efforts alone, but this does not lessen the responsibility to pursue it. Therefore I must co-operate with other fellow colleagues and recognize each other’s efforts in striving to meet this challenge.
            I have found a new faith that traverses all narrow boundaries of nations, castes and creeds and it envisions me to look at society afresh. To my fellows I pledge, in the same full measure I ask of them, integrity and fair dealing, tolerance and respect, and devotion to the standards and the dignity of our profession and the Institute; with the consciousness, always, that our special expertness carries with the obligation TO SERVE HUMANITY WITH COMPLETE SINCERITY.”
Ineos
Region: WEOG
Country: Switzerland
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

VCI Responsible  Care Guidelines

1.  Safety and the protection of human health and the environment is a matter of fundamental importance. For this reason, company managements are required to define guidelines for Responsible Care that are oriented towards this paramount principle. In addition, measures and procedures shall be defined that enable implementation of these guidelines
into everyday practice by the company and its employees, as well as periodic reviews of and, if appropriate, adjustment to new requirements.

2.  The companies strengthen their employees’ awareness for safety and the environment. They increase employees’ sensitivity for possible environmental burdens as a result of products or plant operations.

3.  The companies of the chemical industry respect the general public’s need for transparency in connection with products, processes and activities on the basis of a constructive approach and respond to this need in a constructive approach.

4.  The companies of the chemical industry continuously improve the safety of their products: in the selection of raw materials, in production, storage, transportation, distribution, use, recycling and disposal. They take into account health, safety and environmental aspects both in the development of new products and product processes and in communication with buyers, processors and users.

5.  In accordance with their product responsibility, the companies of the chemical industry provide information about rules for the safe transport, storage, safe use, recycling and disposal of their products. This applies, in particular, to buyers, processors and users.

6.  The companies of the chemical industry work continuously on extending their knowledge of their products and production procedures, in particular with respect to their potential to impact on human health and the environment during all phases of the products’ lifecycle.

7.  Irrespective of economic interests, the companies of the chemical industry shall limit the marketing of products or discontinue production, if the results of a scientific risk assessment call for such limitation or discontinuation as a precautionary measure to protect human health and the environment.

8.  The companies of the chemical industry operate safe production plants. Should any risks endangering or the environment be recognisable, the companies shall take immediate action as required. In so doing they shall cooperate closely with the public agencies and inform the general public.

9.  The companies of the chemical industry actively make available their knowledge and experience in the preparation of practical and effective laws, regulations and standards with the aim of ensuring the protection of human health and the environment.

10. The companies of the chemical industry maintain and encourage dialog with their stakeholders.

11. The companies of the chemical industry support the national Responsible Care program. In order to comply with RC principles, they provide sufficient resources to enable implementation in the company.


21 September 2007

Only the German language version is the official document
Institute Kimia Malaysia, Malaysian Institute of Chemistry
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Malaysia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Professional Code of Ethics
CHEMIST PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT BY-LAWS 1978
The Council has approved the following by-laws to regulate the professional conduct of members:
ACT 158
IN exercise of the powers conferred by section 11 (a) of the Chemists Act 1975, the Council of the Malaysian Institute of Chemistry makes the following By-Laws:
Citation
1.   These By-Laws may be cited as the Chemist (Professional Conduct) By-Laws 1978. 
Interpretation
2.  In these By-Laws, “employer” includes a client. 

General Conduct
3. A registered chemist shall order his conduct so as to uphold the dignity, standing, and reputation
of the profession.
Regard to Public Interest
4. A registered chemist, in discharging his duty to his employer and to the profession, shall have full
regard to the public interest.
Fidelity to Employer
5. A registered chemist shall discharge his duty to his employer with complete fidelity and shall not
accept any remuneration for services rendered except from his employer or with his employer’s
permission.
Inflicting Professional Injury
6. A registered chemist shall not maliciously injure or attempt to injure, whether directly or in
directly, the professional reputation, prospects, or business of another registered chemist.
Canvassing & Advertising for Employment
7. A registered chemist shall not, by advertisement or otherwise, canvass for or solicit professional
employment, unless he is permitted by the Council to do so for the purpose of obtaining a salaried
employment, not shall be offer to make, by commission or otherwise, payment for the introduction
of such employment.
Partners in Private Practice
8. A registered chemist shall not, without the permission of the Council, engage in private practice, or
enter into professional partnership, with any person who is not a registered chemist.
Misuse of Salaried Position to Compete
9. A registered chemist shall not take unfair advantage of a salaried position to compete with
registered chemists in private practice.
Control of Laboratories
10. i)A registered chemist, if he is in control of a laboratory, shall within two weeks of becoming a
registered chemist or of obtaining control of the laboratory notify the Council in writing of the place
where his laboratory is located.
ii)A registered chemist shall not without the prior permission of the Council be in control of more
than one laboratory.
iii) A registered chemist shall if he is in control of a laboratory other than in his place of work,
maintain close contact with the laboratory make a personal visit at least once a month and submit
monthly a written report of the work carried out by the person(s) under his supervision.
Interference in work of another Registered Chemist
11. A registered chemist in private practice shall not, directly or indirectly, attempt to supplant
another registered chemist in private practice, nor shall he intervene or attempt to intervene in or in
connexion with chemical analysis work of any kind that to his knowledge has already been entrusted
to another registered chemist in private practice, nor shall he, acting for an employer, review or take
over the work of another registered chemist in private practice acting for the same employer, until
he has either obtained the consent of the other registered chemist or has been formally notified by
the employer that the engagement of that registered chemist for the work has been properly
terminated.
Maintenance of Proper Standard of Chemical Analysis
12. A registered chemist shall not carry out or permit to be carried out any chemical analysis other
than in a properly equipped laboratory and shall at all times maintain a high level of technical
competency, and a high degree of professional integrity, in his work.

Institute of Chemistry of Ireland
Region: WEOG
Country: Ireland
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

All individual Members and Associates of the Institute have a duty to:-
    Have special regard at all times to the public interest and to the maintenance of the highest standards of competence and integrity
    Conduct themselves honourably in the practice of their profession.
    Observe the provisions of the Rules, Regulations and Laws of the Institute
    Promote the interests of the Institute and maintain its dignity and welfare.
In order to fulfil their duty under this code, all individual Members and Associates shall give attention to any general guidance or specific advice, and conform to any rulings, on the professional affairs issued at any time by the Council of the Institute of Chemistry of Ireland.

Integrated Chemists of the Philippines
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Philippines
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

PROFESSIONAL REGULATORY BOARD OF CHEMISTRY
Resolution No. _____
Series of ______

CODE OF ETHICS FOR THE CHEMISTRY PROFESSION

Pursuant to its powers and functions under Sections 7 (i) and 47 of Republic Act No. 10657, otherwise known as the “Chemistry Profession Act”, the Professional Regulatory Board of Chemistry, hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, hereby adopts and promulgates this “Code of Ethics for the Chemistry Profession”.

The Chemistry profession plays an important role in the welfare and progress of the Philippines and human society in general. To maintain the honor, integrity, and dignity of the Chemistry profession, the Board has promulgated this Code of Ethics which defines and sets forth the rules of professional conduct for the proper observance and guidance of all Chemistry professionals in the Philippines.

I.  GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF ETHICAL CONDUCT

Section 1. Chemists shall adhere to the Philippine Constitution, Republic Act No. 8981 (the PRC Modernization Act of 2000), and Republic Act No. 10657 (the Chemistry Profession Act), and other pertinent laws, as well as the implementing rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to such laws.

Section 2. Chemists shall uphold public interest and welfare at all times.

Section 3. They shall endeavor to contribute to national development through the practice of their profession.

Section 4. They are expected to be stewards of the environment. They shall follow the laws, rules and regulations pertaining to chemical waste management, and disposal. They shall continuously endeavor to prevent or minimize pollution, protect the environment, and conserve Nature’s bounty and resources. 
 
Section 5.  All Chemistry professionals have the obligation to safeguard and to advance the professional practice of Chemistry, and to abide and conform to the principles of ethical conduct herein set forth. 

Section 6. Chemists are encouraged to share their knowledge with society through publication in popular media and scientific journals, and contribute actively in popular, scientific and technical conferences. 

Section 7. They shall properly evaluate the technical merit of all requests related to their professional practice and should advise clients or employers of the feasibility and cost of the work before the same is undertaken. They should be conservative in their estimates, especially so if these pertain to the promotion of business enterprises.  

Section 8. They shall be fair and reasonable in the conduct of all their professional activities in whatever role, whether as employer, subordinate or employee, contractor, etc. As employer, Chemists should provide a safe, congenial working environment, fair compensation, opportunities for advancement, and properly acknowledge the scientific or technical contributions of co-workers. 

Section 9. They shall prepare reports, testimonies, and statements fairly and accurately. 

Section 10. Chemists in the academe should regard the tutelage of students as a trust given by society for the promotion of the students’ learning and professional development. Students should be treated fairly and respectfully. The safety of students should be ensured at all times

II. SPECIFIC PROVISIONS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT

Section 11. Chemists shall abide by the rules duly promulgated by the Professional Regulation Commission and the Board of Chemistry. 

Section 12. They are obliged to become active members of the Accredited Professional Organization (APO) for the Chemistry profession.  They shall actively participate in the activities of the APO. 

Section 13. They shall not act in any manner or engage in any activity or practice that may tend to discredit or bring to disrepute the profession.  

Section 14. They shall not engage in any work which, by its nature is illegal or immoral, nor aid, assist or cooperate with those who are so engaged. They shall safeguard the use of their knowledge and not allow the improper use of their name, license, or authority. They shall refrain from associating with persons or entities of questionable character or reputation.

Section 15.  They shall not use false or misleading statements in connection with their professional qualifications, credentials, skills or expertise. 

Section 16. They shall disclose situations where actual or potential conflict of interest may arise.   

Violation of any of the Specific Provisions of Ethical Conduct shall constitute unethical and unprofessional conduct and shall, therefore, be considered as a sufficient cause for the revocation of the Certificate of Registration or suspension from the practice of the profession of a Chemistry professional in accordance with Section 29 of Republic Act No. 10657. 

This Code shall take effect fifteen (15) days from its publication in the Official Gazette or in any newspaper of general circulation in the Philippines.

Done this ____ day of _________, 2015 in the City of Manila.


ADORACION P. RESURRECCION
Chairperson

SOLEDAD S. CASTAÑEDA                            VACANT                           Member                                       Member                            
Attested by:

LOVELIKA T. BAUTISTA
Officer-in-Charge
Office of the Secretary to the Professional Regulatory Boards

Approved by:


FLORENTINO C. DOBLE, M. D.
Chairman

ANGELINE T. CHUA CHIACO                     YOLANDA D. REYES
  Commissioner                              Commissioner




O-CH/COMMI/COMMII/PRB-CHEM/PRBSEC
FCD/ATCC/YDR/APR/LTB             

International Council for Science
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

ICSU Committee on Freedom and Responsibility in the conduct of Sciencei (CFRS) Statement on promoting the integrity of science and the scientific record 
National oversight mechanisms 
One of the major challenges in considering research integrity is the absence of quantitative information on the extent of errors in the scientific literature and of deliberate misconduct. This in turn relates to the absence of clearly identified bodies with responsibility for monitoring research integrity and collecting and collating relevant data. ICSU recently surveyed its national membersiv to determine which institutions are responsible for fostering scientific integrity and handling allegations of scientific misconduct. Whilst some countries do have designated Offices of Research Integrity or Scientific Ombudsmen, in many countries this national oversight and advisory function is either absent or distributed amongst several poorly coordinated bodies. 
Recommendation 1: CFRS recommends the establishment of clear and transparent national monitoring and advisory mechanisms for Research Integrity: 
- to provide oversight for research integrity issues at a national level 
- to facilitate collection of data on the incidence of reports of errors in the scientific record and of scientific misconduct 
- to provide oversight and advice for institutions 
- to provide an avenue for appeal in individual cases of alleged misconduct 
- to formulate and revise codes of conduct 
- to facilitate international compatibility of standards for scientific conduct 
- to facilitate the investigation of concerns about errors in the literature, particularly when they involve international collaboration 
1 CFRS September 2008 

The survey of ICSU National members indicated that the main responsibility for handling issues of scientific misconduct falls upon the universities or employers. A clearly defined national monitoring and advisory mechanism would help the universities fulfil their role and provide the necessary oversight to ensure that allegations of research misconduct are handled consistently and appropriately. Scientific academies can play a valuable role either in serving as national oversight structures themselves or by providing independent advice and assistance to the appropriate national structures. 
Scientific Publishing 
The nature of science means that spurious results will occur and be published from time to time, without any misconduct by the authors of the publication. When other researchers find that such results cannot be reproduced, it is important that they are able to rebut the initial findings to correct the scientific record. Errors in the scientific record should be corrected rapidly, whether they are inadvertent, because of accident or neglect, or are deliberate, as a result of scientific misconduct. In this way, the self-correcting ability of science will be accelerated. 
Recommendation 2: CFRS recommends strengthening practices by journals to improve detection and facilitate correction of published errors. 
-Journal editors are encouraged to exchange information and coordinate their activities in relation to scientific integrity. Issues are likely to vary from one field of science to another but some initiatives already exist that might be adopted and adapted more widelyv. 
-Common protocols should be put in place so that reports of concern can be handled consistently and efficiently. 
-Publishers are encouraged to work with journal editors and to consider research integrity issues within their own professional associations. 
-Journals’ guidelines to authors and reviewers should be made more comprehensive. 
-The threshold for publication of rebuttals and corrections should be lowered. 
-Journals are encouraged to publish annual reports that summarize how many reports of concern were received, and what the outcome was. 
-When articles are corrected or retracted, links should be put in place so that those who look up the article are alerted. 
ICSU member organizations that publish scientific journals are encouraged to join with relevant professional bodies or adopt their own codes of practice so that reports of possible published errors or scientific misconduct can be managed fairly, efficiently, and consistently. 
Deliberate misconduct 
When errors are because of scientific misconduct, such as the falsification or fabrication of results, it is important not only to correct the scientific record, but also to impose some kind of penalty or sanction, in order to preserve confidence in the scientific enterprise as a whole. Similarly, while plagiarism is a form of misconduct that might not necessarily introduce scientific errors into the literature, if it is not discouraged, it can undermine confidence in the practice of science. 
2 CFRS September 2008 3 
Dealing with cases of scientific misconduct can be a complex process involving several different organisations – journal editors and publishers, research institutions, research funders and collaborating organisations, working at different scales – local, national and international. 
Recommendation 3: CFRS recommends that responsible institutions, at the local, national and international level, work closely with scientific editors and publishers to identify and investigate cases of deliberate scientific misconduct. 
-Journal editors and publishers have a primary role to play in identifying falsification, fraud and plagiarism and notifying relevant authorities, as well as publishing corrections or retracting papers when appropriate. 
- Universities, research institutes and funders have a central role in verifying and investigating reported cases. 
- Institutions with a national responsibility for research integrity have a role in monitoring and advising local institutions and coordinating with responsible authorities in other countries. 
It is important that clear and transparent processes to deal efficiently with cases of scientific misconduct are developed in all countries. Such processes should be seen as an integral part of the self-correction and self-regulatory mechanisms on which the integrity of science ultimately depends. 

IUPAC
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Draft Elements for Codes of Conduct.
(IUPAC Project  o. 2007-022-2-020: Recommendations for Codes of Conduct)
IUPAC provides leadership, facilitation, and encouragement of chemistry and promotes the
norms, values, standards and ethics of science and the free exchange of scientific information.
In fulfilling this mission, IUPAC effectively contributes to the worldwide understanding and
application of the chemical sciences, to the betterment of the human condition.
To further these goals IUPAC recommends that all those engaged in chemistry review their
existing codes of conduct, or develop new codes of conduct, to promote the safe use of
chemicals in the public interest and in the furtherance of science, and to encourage
compliance with all relevant international and national laws and regulations. All specific
recommendations below should be taken in the context of this overarching objective.
IUPAC particularly recommends all National Adhering Organisations (NAOs), Associate
National Adhering Organizations (ANAOs) and national chemical societies review their
existing codes or develop new ones to encourage all those within their jurisdiction who
engage in science and technology using chemicals to:
  Ensure that their own work is ethical and upholds the dignity, standing, reputation
and integrity of the profession
  Take steps to ensure that scientific knowledge and technologies are used only for the
benefits and betterment of humankind and the environment
  Ensure that their work is in accordance with the principles of sustainable
development and safeguards the earth’s capacity to support life in all its diversity.
  Ensure that chemicals, equipment and facilities under their care and supervision are
not used for illegal, harmful or destructive purposes
  Ensure the safety of and minimize risk to their fellow workers and colleagues, the
general public and the environment bearing in mind both the intended and unintended
consequences of their activities
  Ensure that their work is, and is perceived to be, adherent to or compliant with
national laws and international conventions* on chemicals and other related
substances
  Cooperate with governments and organisations to identify gaps in legislation,
regulations and standards, and to develop and implement new laws, regulations and
standards to meet these gaps.
  Report any misuse of chemicals and facilities for criminal and/or destructive
purposes to the relevant authority
  Update their knowledge on the latest development in the health and environmental
risk of chemicals and related substances
  Conduct regular health, safety and security assessments of their work and facilities
under their care
  Use their knowledge and understanding to facilitate public education, understanding
and appreciation of the benefits arising from chemistry as well as the risks associated
with the misuse or inappropriate use of chemicals.
* See Annex I (over page)
JSEE (Japanese Society for Engineering Education)
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Japan
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Code of Ethics of the Japanese Society for Engineering Education

Resolved on May 31, 2010 by the JSEE assembly meeting.
Revised and resolved on June 18, 2012. Revised and resolved on June 14, 2013.

The advancement of engineering and technology is expected to play a vital role in the future of the global environment and human society as well as of Japan.   We, the members of the Japanese Society for Engineering Education (JSEE), seek to foster practitioners, researchers, and educators of engineering and technology who can contribute to the future of humanity, Japan and the global environment. Our mission is to examine engineering education from multiple perspectives in order to enhance its quality, to propose and implement forward-looking engineering education, and thereby to contribute to the well-being of mankind and the future of the global environment and Japan.

The Code of Ethics of the JSEE is herein established so that we, the members of the JSEE, will make constant efforts to maintain our self-awareness and dignity as engineering education professionals, and will contribute to the advancement of human beings and of Japan through responsible practice, research, development, and implementation of engineering education.

Each of the individual members of the JSEE endeavors to make conscientious and responsible decisions and to act based upon his/her understanding of the values and norms proclaimed in this Code of Ethics.   The institutional members of the JSEE are to honor the spirit of this Code, and strive to establish systems that can encourage faithful behavior of the members in each organization.

<Responsibility to Society>

1.  We shall hold paramount the safety, health, and well-being of human beings. We shall also strive to maintain and improve the sense of security in the public as well as to build a sustainable society by contributing to the practice, research, development and implementation of engineering and technological education to foster engineering practitioners, researchers, and educators with a conscious awareness of the fact that the source of our expertise, skills, and experiences has been provided by human society.

<Responsibility for Engineering Education >

2.  We shall make sincere efforts for education and research in recognition of the responsibility of cultivating engineering practitioners，researchers，and educators who have important roles in the future society.

<Continuous Professional Development>
3.  We  shall  make  constant  efforts  to  maintain  and  enhance  our  knowledge ，
 

competence，and professional capacity as well as our capacity for ethical judgment in both engineering education and our own fields of specialty.

< Respect for the Rights of the Others and Responsible Conduct of Research>

4.  We shall respect the rights of others while engaged in education and research, paying due attention to their values. We shall refrain from any misconduct such as fabrication or falsification of data, or plagiarism, nor shall we allow others to commit such misconduct. Furthermore, we shall not overlook such unethical behavior.

<Disclosure of Information and Results>

5.  We shall actively disclose, in the light of the public welfare, the information and research findings which we seek and obtain, aiming for new knowledge and insights, with due respect for the intellectual achievements of others, and thereby contribute to the development of engineering education.

<Elimination of Discrimination>

6.  We shall ensure fairness by eliminating discrimination based on race，religion， gender，and social status in due consideration of cultural diversity in global society.

<Evaluation and Judgment with Fairness>

7.  We shall maintain objectivity and fairness in evaluation and judgment when engaged in engineering education.

<Advancement in the Status of the Engineering Community>

8.  We shall strive to raise the social valuation and status of engineering practitioners and those involved in engineering education.

<Compliance with Laws and Ethical Norms>

9.  We shall comply with laws and rules and respect ethical norms and standards of the organizations and academic and professional societies to which we belong. In case any inconsistency is found between the above norms and those in this Code, we shall also, while taking ethical responsibility for ourselves, make utmost efforts to resolve such inconsistencies.

<Avoiding Conflicts of Interest>

10. We shall pay due attention and take proper measures in order to avoid any problems caused by conflicts of interest in practicing engineering education.
Kenya Chemical Society
Region: African Group
Country: Kenya
Type of Organisation: Chemistry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

KCS Professional Practice and Code of Conduct
2015
Developed by:
Kenya Chemical Society Department of Chemistry
P.O. Box 30197 - 00100 Nairobi Email: kenchemsoc@gmail.com www.kenchemsoc.org

1.  KCS Professional Practice and Code of Conduct
1.1 Preamble
The Kenya Chemical Society is the professional body for chemical scientists under the Society’s act of Kenya we have accountability for advancement and certification of competence in chemical science, and maintaining the integrity of our members. Our members voluntarily commit to a code of professional conduct and high standards in their practice of chemistry. The Kenya Chemical Society shall be a professional and learned national organization serving Kenya and such other affiliated bodies in its services. The Kenya Chemical Society shall co-operate and collaborate with the Government, industries and other professional institutions in achieving its objectives. The chemists' advisory role to Government through NEMA, KEBS etc. on all matters related to Chemicals production, safety, security, and use in medicine, agriculture, water, waste, geochemistry, and industry in general and their impacts on the environment including use of radioisotopes and nuclear chemistry cannot be underestimated.
1.2 Scope
The code shall cover all aspects of learning, research application, practice, and professional conduct in all branches of chemistry and related disciplines
1.3 Mission
To advance chemistry and disseminate its values for sustainable development.

1.4 Vision
To be a world class professional chemical sciences society

1.5 Core Values
i.  Advancement of Chemical Sciences as a global multidisciplinary science
ii. Chemical Safety and security
iii.    Integrity, transparency and accountability
iv. Community outreach
v.  Excellency

1.6 Aims and objectives
i.  To promote advancement of chemical sciences and technology in Kenya.
ii. To promote communication and co-ordination between and among chemists and allied professionals in Kenya.
iii.    To provide a forum for discussion and a medium for dissemination of chemical knowledge among the members of the Kenya Chemical Society and the public at large.
iv. To encourage advanced training and research in chemistry within Kenya and to find ways and means for such training elsewhere.
 
v.  To co-operate with the Government of Kenya and other public bodies or institutions in national development.
vi. To co-operate with other national and international chemical organizations in organizing meetings, exchanging of information etc.
vii.    To institute and maintain professional standards amongst its members.
viii.   To promote the welfare of chemists in Kenya.


1.7 Functions
In pursuance of the aforementioned aims and objectives the Kenya Chemical Society shall
Endeavour:
i.  To promote communication and co-ordination amongst its members.
ii. To provide a forum for discussion and a medium for the dissemination of knowledge amongst its members by organizing symposia, seminars, workshops and conferences.
iii.    To raise public awareness and promote  chemical knowledge and application amongst members of the public,
iv. To co-operate with the appropriate government institutions in formulating scientific and educational policies, planning and in the application of research results.
v.  To act as a medium for advancement of chemical knowledge in Kenya and to promote international goodwill and understanding through the exchange of research work and scholars.
vi. To develop and co-ordinate creative abilities of young chemists by encouraging formation of chemistry clubs, associations and organizing competitions and such other activities as the Kenya Chemical Society may deem fit.
vii.    To establish, publish, and distribute a peer reviewed Journal of the Chemical Society.
viii.   To encourage advanced short-term courses and scholarships.
ix. To develop and maintain a code of conduct for chemists.
x.  To undertake such other activities as may be consistent with aims and objectives of the Chemical Society.
xi. Develop a mechanism for accrediting practicing professional chemists in Kenya.
 
2.  Part One:   Preliminary
2.1 Objectives of the KCS Professional Practice and Code of Conduct The purpose of ‘The professional Practice and Code of Conduct’ is to help members deal with the demands on their working lives, and any ethical problems that may arise. Its objectives include the following:
i.  To provide a benchmark by which the professional conduct of Kenya Chemical Society members
ii. To guide Kenyan Chemists, allied fields, and the public in defining their ethical and moral rights and responsibilities
iii.    To provide a system of nurturing competence, knowledge, professional conduct, consistency, integrity and ethics in carrying out Chemical research, Chemical Manufacturing and Chemistry education.
iv. To provide for the regulation and discipline of Chemists and allied practitioners.

2.2 Citation
This code may be cited as Kenya Chemical Society Professional Practice and Code of Conduct
2.3 Definition
In this Code unless the contest otherwise requires, “Member”    means an individual or firm or corporate registered with the Kenya Chemical Society.
2.4 Application
This Code applies to all members of the Kenya Chemical Society.

2.5 Information and Resources
Other governance/policy documents for reference include:
i.  KCS constitution
ii. OSHA handbook
iii.    Environment Act 2009
iv. KEBs Standards Act, Chapter 496
v.  Societies Act Chapter 108
 
3.  Part two:  Requirements
Each KCS member shall comply with all the requirements as set out in ‘The Professional Practice and Code of Conduct’. Members shall maintain high personal integrity, moral standards and sound reputation by ascribing and observing this code.
3.1.    Ethical consideration
The Kenya Chemical Society is fully committed to ensuring that it operates as an ethical organization. Members undertaking any activities on behalf of KCS are expected on be fair and honest and act within the law at all times.

Members:
i.  Should never engage in an action that conflicts with their integrity, or that of the Kenya Chemical Society.
ii. Must never act in a way that could be interpreted as being discriminatory.
iii.    Who are considering speaking out against alleged wrong-doing on the part of an employer or others cans seek our advice. We may have a role to fulfill in such matters.
iv. Will usually find situations which cause ethical problems can be solved by approaching senior colleagues. Members can consult Kenya Chemical for advice and support in the strictest confidence.
v.  In small organizations may be particularly expressed, since there may be no scientific colleagues from whom they can seek advice. Members can consult the Kenya Chemical Society for advice and support in the strictest confidence.
vi. Should fulfill their contractual responsibilities to the best of their ability.
vii.    Have a duty to serve the public interest, and maintain and enhance the reputation of the profession.
viii.   Should carry out lawful instructions from a senior colleague and maintain the right to have reservations put on record, or seek further consultation.
ix. Accept that resignation or dismissal may be the ultimate consequence of sustained disagreement with their employer.
3.2.    Employee Responsibilities
When members enter employment their rights and obligations will be specified in a formal contract. All employers are obliged to produce a document containing the conditions of service. There are also legally enforceable duties that arise from the relationship between the employer and employee. These apply even if they are not set down in writing.
The main obligations are:
i.  To give loyal and diligent service.
ii. To deal honestly with the employer’s property and facilities.
iii.    To provide whatever skills and competencies were claimed when entering employment.
iv. To be willing to adopt new and improved methods of working.
v.  To obtain the employer’s permission, and to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest, before entering additional employment.
vi. To not attempt to obtain, or accept, any bribe or secret commission of any sort.
vii.    To not use confidential information obtained from employment, which is detrimental to the employer: (both during and after employment, without time limit)
viii.   To allow the employer to profit fully from discoveries and invention arising from the normal duties of the employment (there may be a provision for an employee to derive benefit from an innovation of outstanding benefit to the employer).

3.3.    Employer responsibilities
Members who are employers or supervisors have additional accountabilities. They will influence others by giving instructions and leading by example. In addition to meeting the ethical and contractual requirements members have an
Obligation to:
i.  Recognize the right of employees to exercise their discretion.
ii. Facilitate the professional development of all employees.
iii.    Provide equal opportunities for all employees.
iv. Be accurate and fair in appraising the work of others.
v.  Provide accurate references on request.
vi. Resolve conflicts with clear procedures.
vii.    Be strictly impartial when discussing redundancies or promotions.
viii.   Avoid unfair or misleading statements to industrial tribunals.
ix. Ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements.

3.4.    Self-employment and consultancy
Much of the advice in the employee and employer sections also relates to self- employment and consultancy. These members must maintain a confidential relationship with clients. They must not reveal information obtained from clients to a third party without consent. Such information may prevent accepting work from additional clients.

These members have direct contact with the public and have significant impact on perception.
At the outset of any work, the consultant and customer should agree on:
i.  A clear understanding of objectives
ii. The assignment of any patent claims arising out of the consultation.
 
iii.    The scope and manner of final reports and publications.
iv. The estimated cost or fee.
v.  Sufficient professional indemnity Insurance cover.
vi. Not attempting to poach other consultants’ clients by denigrating the consultant’s reputations.
vii.    Where applicable adhering to the KCS Consultancy policy

3.5.    Trade union Membership and industrial action

Membership of a trade union may bring benefits to employees. However, industrial action may conflict with the duties of a member to serve the public interest.
i.  Participation in industrial action is not unethical, but members are not obliged to take part in industrial action.
ii. Industrial action will almost certainly represent a breach of the employee’s contract of employment.
iii.    Some contracts of service specify that disputes which cannot be resolved by negotiation be referred to an arbitrator. We recommend this arrangement.

3.6.    Education
Members within education at any level have accountability to lay the foundations of scientific and professional standards. They have a responsibility to their students and to the profession as a whole. The future of the profession may be shaped by their influence on those students.

In addition to their duties they should:
i.  Set an example to their students by demonstrating high professional and ethical standards.
ii. Set the highest standards of personal integrity. Attention to accuracy should be exercised in chemical science investigations.
iii.    Be aware of the ethical implications. The environmental effects of chemical discovery should be a focus throughout a scientist’s training.
iv. Be responsible for the health and safety of students in laboratories and ensure that their students observe all relevant safe working practices.
v.  Monitor any conflicts of interest which may develop between responsibilities for the students and to the institution.
 
3.7.    Serving the public interest

All members have responsibilities arising from their duty to serve the public interest, and should be concerned with the advancing excellence in the chemical sciences. The Kenya Chemical Society does not condone any attempt to coerce its members into unlawful activity.

We expect members to use their professional skills to:

i.  Advance the welfare of society, particularly in the fields of chemistry, health, safety and the environment.
ii. Advocate suitable precautions against possible harmful side-effects of science and technology.
iii.    Identify the risks of scientific activities, and take an active interest in safety and security throughout their organizations.
iv. Undertake any lawful scientific activity as required even if in an area that arouses adverse publicity.
v.  Use their knowledge and experience for the protection and improvement of the environment.

3.8.    Health and safety and other legislation
Members must be aware of the general principles of law relating to health and safety, negligence, discrimination, data protection, and any other law relating to their field of scientific work.

Members should:
i.  Have a duty to minimize adverse effects on health and safety and to recommend the use of best health and safety practice and give appropriate advice.
ii. Be aware smaller organizations will rely on members to ensure compliance of the law.
iii.    Maintain a broad and up- to-date understanding of the regulations and other developments in their own field.
iv. Have a duty to put their objections on record if legal requirements are being overlooked, and to do all they can to put matters right.

3.9.    Public Relations, Statements and Communications

The media often deal with health, safety, and environmental protection issues. The coverage given is not always accurate or objective. This does not mean that a member

who believes it is in the public interest to express a particular opinion should hesitate to express it because it happens to be controversial.

Members should:

i.  Bear in mind that what they say in the media may be taken as representing general opinion among all members.
ii. First obtain the facts of the case and ensure that they have a genuine contribution to make.
iii.    Consider the nature and objective of the programme or publication and make sure comments are not taken out of context.
iv. Be aware bad news generally attracts more attention than good, and the media may exaggerate the seriousness of an issue.
v.  Make it clear when they are expressing personal opinions, rather than stating facts. This is especially true when the opinions are not shared by all professional colleagues.
vi. Not use the Kenya Chemical Society’s name to imply its endorsement of personal views under any circumstances.

Considerations which apply to broadcast and press interviews also apply to other forms of communication such as books, lectures, and contributions to electronic media.

Authors should be aware of intellectual property laws governing copyright. In particular members should:
i.  Obtain written permission from the copy right holder for material used in any public domain.
ii. Guard against wrongful disclosure of confidential information especially relating to current research and development work.
iii.    Acknowledge past scientific work and recognize any substantial help and advice received.
iv. Obtain written permission from their employer before signing a contract with a publisher.
v.  Be unbiased and honest. Refrain from all forms of plagiarism, and correct any errors which may arise over time.
 
4.0 Legal: Presenting legal evidence

Public Committees

Members may be called on to give evidence to governmental or parliamentary committee or other public bodies. If so, they are advised to contact us for advice about procedures.

Members should:
i.  Study the terms of reference, and establish the capacity in which he/she will appear.
ii. Consider its subjects are of relevance to all members. If so, we can make written or oral submissions.
iii.    Not imply endorsement by the Kenya Chemical Society unless obtained in advance.
iv. Should ask to see transcripts of evidence that they have given as a witness, so that errors can be corrected before publication.

4.1.    Tribunals and inquiries

A tribunal is usually set up after an incident that causes public concern. Tribunals usually follow legal guidelines except no charges are brought.
Following the hearing, a report is produced. If serious criticisms or allegations of wrong doing are made in the report then legal proceedings may follow. We can advise members about their responsibilities and rights at hearing, but is not able to present the cases of members called before tribunals. We may also decide to be present when a question of principle is raised which affects the profession as a whole.

Members should:
i.  Be aware inquiries and tribunals often determine whether incompetence contributed to an accident or incident.
ii. Establish the capacity in which they are being called
iii.    Seek personal legal advice before and during the hearing. This may be in addition to any legal advice provided by their employer.
iv. Exercise their right to receive a copy of the transcript and challenge any misleading statement relating to the evidence.
 
4.2.    Expert witness
The function of an expert witness is to assist the court in arriving at a verdict by explaining the technical or scientific facts on which a lawsuit may depend.
In civil cases, courts normally expect both parties to appoint one agreed expert witness. If the parties cannot agree, the court may appoint an expert from an approved list. In criminal cases, courts allow each party to call one or more expert witnesses.

Members should:
i.  Familiarize themselves with the court procedure.
ii. Aim to establish their expertise with courtesy and with the highest professional integrity.
iii.    Provide evidence which is objective and restricted to matters which the witness can speak about with authority and avoid hearsay.
iv. Avoid a biased attitude which could harm the value of the evidence presented and their integrity.
v.  Be aware that references can be quoted, but their acceptability may be challenged if the author is alive.
vi. Inform the court about matters which they were previously unaware.
vii.    Avoid traps set by counsel in the form of questions that demand a simple answer but to which a simple unqualified answer might be misleading.

4.3.    Disciplinary Proceedings
The KCS Disciplinary Committee shall receive and investigate written and signed complaints against KCS members, make findings thereupon. The Disciplinary Committee through the management may reprove, suspend, revoke, the certificate of any member; or reprove, suspend or revoke the authorization granted to any member who has done any of the following:
i.  Who has been convicted of a misdemeanor or felony arising from or in connection with the KCS practice.
ii. Who has committed any deceit, misrepresentation, violation of contract, fraud, or negligence in his practice.
iii.    Who has committed any fraud or deceit in obtaining or renewing their certificate.
iv. Who has aided or abetted any person in the violation of any provisions of these Articles.
v.  Who presents or attempts to use as fake or someone else’s certificate as his/her own. Who gives false evidence of any kind to KCS, or to any agent thereof, in obtaining or in helping another to obtain a membership certificate.
vi. Who uses an expired or revoked certificate.
vii.    Who has violated any provision of these Articles.
The KCS governing council at their sole discretion may reissue a certificate of registration or certification to a person whose certificate has been revoked.
4.4.    Enforcement of the code
The KCS governing council shall be responsible for ensuring the code is implemented, understood, and observed by the members. The elected KCS officials shall ensure members comply with the code. Failure to follow the guidance given may lead to disciplinary action through the laid down procedures. All members of the KCS shall comply with all the regulations and requirements as set out in this code and the constitution of KCS. Members shall maintain a high personal integrity, moral standards and sound reputation by subscribing to this code.
4.5.    Monitoring and Evaluation
The KCS governing council will continuously monitor the implementation of the Professional practice and Code of Conduct through the existing structures. It will prepare an annual report on the implementation of the Code which will be disseminated to members and stakeholders.
4.6.    Review of the Code
The KCS through the governing council shall make provision for reviewing this code from time to time or when deemed necessary.

5.1 Pledge to Professional Practice and Code of conduct

The council of the Kenya Chemical Society has adopted the following code of conduct. The Professional Practice and Code of Conduct shall apply to all members of KCS including (Honorary, Corporate, Associate, Ordinary, Institutional Student and Life and student members) as per the KCS Constitution’s Article IV Sub-section 2(b)
All members of the Kenya Chemical Society shall have a duty to:
i.  Adhere to the KCS Constitution, Regulations or By-laws
ii. Conduct themselves honorably, responsibly, objectively, lawfully and in a non-discriminatory manner the practice of their profession
iii.    Shall conform to any rulings on professional conduct that may be approved and issued from time to time by the Governing Council of the KCS
iv. Maintain the highest standards of competence and integrity, when carrying out duties in areas of employment or as consultants
 
v.  Further the interests of and maintain the dignity and welfare of the KCS.

In order to fulfill their duty under this Code, members shall give due attention to any general guidance on professional conduct, together with advice on specific issues, and shall conform to any rulings on such matters that may be approved and issued from time to time by the KCS Governing Council.

Members are reminded of the declaration signed on taking up membership of the KCS (as required under the constitution):

‘I, the undersigned, do hereby declare that, while a member of the Kenya Chemical Society, I will observe the provisions of the constitution and any regulations made under them, and that I will conduct myself honorably in the practice of my profession and will further the interests and maintain the dignity and welfare of the KCS for as long as I shall continue to be a member.’
Name -------------------------------------------

Sign----------------------------------- Date    

The Kenya Chemical Society has a disciplinary process for members that do not adhere to this Professional practice and code of conduct.
Kuwait Petroleum Corporation
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Kuwait
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct

This Code of Conduct applies to employees of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation and all direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (together, "KPC").

The intent of this document is to provide a set of guidelines to all employees in the conduct of their business and professional activities and when dealing with colleagues, vendors, customers, contractors, government agencies and the public. This document serves as a reminder to all KPC employees that it is important for all of us to uphold the highest standards of integrity and personal conduct in all matters that involve KPC.

You should also be aware that breaches of these values may result in disciplinary action against transgressors and on those who cover up or hide information against KPC interests. References to disciplinary action in this Code are to disciplinary action in accordance with locally applicable policies and laws; such action may extend to termination of employment in appropriate cases.

In addition to such disciplinary action, you might be subject to legal action in case of any infraction of public law. Upon joining KPC and while performing your duties, you must comply with this Code of Conduct.
I pledge to respect my colleagues regardless of their nationality, race, religion or gender
1- Respect for Religious Beliefs

KPC's policy is to respect the beliefs and religious practices of people of all faiths. It is, therefore, the responsibility of each employee to honor and respect the right of others to practice their religious beliefs in dignity. Interference with these rights and freedoms will be considered a violation of the law and KPC policy and will be subject to disciplinary action, including termination of employment.

2- Harassment

KPC intends to provide a work environment that is pleasant, healthy, comfortable and free from intimidation, hostility or other offensive behaviors toward employees, contractors, vendors or customers. Sexual harassment of any sort, including verbal, physical or visual, is strictly prohibited. The making of false accusations and defamatory statements, whether verbal or written, of such harassment is also strictly prohibited.

Any employee who engages in any act of harassment in the course of employment shall be subject to disciplinary action. If you believe that you may have been subjected to harassment, you should immediately report the occurrence to the Compliance Officer. All complaints will be treated in strict confidentiality and will be promptly investigated.

3- Rights of the Individual

(a) Good Working Environment

KPC endeavors to provide a safe, healthy, pleasant and supportive working environment for all its employees.

(b) Employee Indemnification

We will indemnify you and hold you harmless, whether you are a current or former employee, if, in the performance of your duties or acting at KPC's request, you are made a party to any civil, criminal or administrative action brought against you and/or KPC. In such a situation, we will pay any costs or expenses reasonably incurred and any amounts paid to settle any action or judgment actually and reasonably incurred by you in connection with the investigation, defense or appeal of such proceedings, provided:

You acted in good faith and honestly believed such actions to be in KPC's interests;
In the case of a criminal or administrative action or proceeding that is enforced by a monetary penalty, you had reasonable grounds for believing that your actions were lawful;
You promptly notify us of the initiation of such proceedings;
You positively participate in the defense;
You allow us to participate in your defense; and
You obtain our prior written approval before making any settlement in the proceedings.
(c) Equal Employment Opportunity

KPC's policy is to provide equal employment opportunity in conformance with all applicable laws and regulations to individuals who are qualified to perform a particular job. We administer our personnel policies, programs and practices in a nondiscriminatory manner in all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, work assignment, promotion, transfer, termination, benefits and salary administration and selection for training.

(d) Fair Treatment (Advancement, Development, Discipline)

Our employees are valuable to the future of KPC and are KPC's greatest assets. As such, all decisions that directly affect an employee's employment status will be fair and equitable. This manifests itself in three ways:

Advancement will be on the basis of merit and performance. Clear criteria will be applied to candidates for vacant posts and the most capable will be promoted.
Development is an essential aspect for all KPC employees. KPC endeavors to provide an environment for improving your qualifications, abilities and skills compatible with your employment position and responsibilities, as well as KPC's policies, rules, regulations and plans.
The Disciplinary Process will always be fair and equitable. If you are a party to a disciplinary review, you will have the opportunity to forward your case or grievance to the Personnel Department. You will be considered innocent of any alleged violation unless found otherwise.
At all times, you will be kept fully aware of your rights and options and will have access to an appeals process if found to be in violation. Disciplinary actions will be prescribed according to the disciplinary code of your relevant personnel policy. You are advised to refer to your personnel policy and to contact the Personnel Department for any additional information.

(e) Participation

You are encouraged to offer your suggestions and ideas for improving our products and services, systems, policies and procedures.
I pledge to protect the environment and the health and safety of my colleagues
HSE Policy & Commitment

good performance in Health, Safety and Environment has tangible and intangible benefits by way of protecting our environment and caring for the welfare of our employees and contractors. Our goals in this regard are to achieve zero injuries and illnesses and to ensure the protection of the environment wherever we conduct our business. Furthermore, off-thejob safety of our employees is just as important as safety on the job.

Strict compliance with applicable HSE policies and standards is an ethical and professional value of KPC. We aim to conduct our business in a healthy, safe and environmentally acceptable manner.

We recognize that HSE systems in one set of our operations might be inapplicable to other operations, so you should strictly adhere to your company's HSE policy, standards and procedures. As a result, all HSE principles, procedures and practices established and documented in your relevant HSE Management System must be followed and implemented.

I pledge to contribute positively to my community
1- Respect for the Law

You are required to obey all local laws and regulations. We endeavor to maintain appropriate levels of legal awareness to protect KPC's interests and those of our employees by anticipating the legal requirements that may arise from new laws and regulations, new business endeavors or modifications of existing business arrangements.

You are responsible for reporting any occurrences or circumstances that may have legal implications for KPC.

You are also required to obey the laws of other countries when traveling on business trips or training courses.

2- Substance Abuse

We are committed to providing a safe, healthy, productive and comfortable working environment. Accordingly, you are expected to be in suitable mental and physical condition while at work for effective and safe performance of your duties.

Whenever use or abuse of any mood-altering substance (such as alcohol, prescription or illegal drugs) interferes with a safe workplace, appropriate action will be taken. The possession or use of moodaltering, non-prescription substances at the workplace, or coming to work under the influence of such substances, is strictly prohibited, is considered a violation of safe work practices and will be subject to disciplinary action.

Use, possession, transportation or sale of any illegal drugs or other mood-altering, non-prescription substances on KPC-owned or leased business premises is strictly prohibited. We reserve the right, in accordance with the law, to search all persons and their personal effects at any time on KPC property or upon entering KPC premises for any of those items, and to require employees to submit to medical evaluation or testing where cause exists to suspect use of illegal substances.

3- Social and Political Relations

We recognize that we have an important role to play in the welfare of the society and that we have a responsibility to communicate, participate and cooperate with local authorities and with organizations interested in the welfare of the society. We encourage all our employees to accept this responsibility and take part in discussions and activities designed to solve community problems in the best interest of the society and KPC, but also to ensure that they do not appear to be acting as spokespeople for KPC.

Employees as individual citizens should maintain good relationships with society, including participating effectively in professional societies, licensed charities and community centers.

You have the right to voluntarily participate in the political process. No one at KPC may require you to contribute to, support or oppose any political group or candidate. You may not, however, work on a political campaign activity during official working hours, on KPC-owned or leased property or by using KPC-owned or leased assets such as computers, printers, photocopies, electronic mail and other such assets.
I pledge to act ethically
1- Business Ethics

Our reputation, and the trust and confidence of those with whom we deal, are among our most vital corporate resources. We are committed to conducting our affairs in a uniformly ethical manner and pursuant to a standard of fundamental honesty and fair dealing. This standard requires adherence to all laws, regulations and normal ethical practices that apply to our business activities, including adherence to official working hours and appropriate business attire. We expect all employees to act in the highest integrity and to report violation of law or policies to the Compliance Officer. You should obey all lawful instructions given by KPC or by any person duly authorized to do so.

2- Conflict of Interest

We all have a responsibility always to work in KPC's best interests and, therefore, must avoid situations and actions that may constitute or create the appearance of constituting a conflict of interest with those of KPC without first having declared your personal interest. Conflicts of interest are often difficult to identify in the early stages and can arise during the course of performing your regular business. Nevertheless, it is your responsibility to seek guidance from your supervisor or the Compliance Officer if there exists a conflict of interest or even the chance of one arising or appearing to arise.

The simple acts of disclosing the possibility of a conflict of interest and abiding by the instructions of the Compliance Officer in that respect release you of the risk of losing the trust placed in you to act in KPC's best interests. Therefore, you are urged to discuss any potential conflict of interest with your supervisor or with the Compliance Officer immediately when a potential conflicting circumstance arises. It is always better to look for any such possibility and disclose the same to the Compliance Officer rather than losing KPC's trust at a later stage. While it is not possible to identify every circumstance that may lead to a conflict of interest, ones similar to the following examples are deemed to create a conflict of interest:

Knowingly holding, or having a relative such as a spouse, sibling, parent, child, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, grandparent, grandchild or parent- or sibling-in-law who holds, a substantial financial interest in any enterprise with which KPC has business dealings (e.g., suppliers, contractors, vendors, customers and licensees);
Knowingly holding, or having such a relative who holds, a substantial financial interest in any enterprise in which KPC has an investment;
Accepting, directly or indirectly, from any vendor or supplier of services any vacations, cash payment, service, loan (except from financial institutions) or discount (except those offered generally to KPC employees) or other items reasonably seen to be inducements by you or any of your relatives of the first or second degree;
Acting as a director, officer or employee of any non-affiliated business or other institution with which KPC has a business relationship;
Directing a business opportunity from KPC for your personal interest;
Using KPC assets (e.g., stationery, letterhead, funds, facilities, equipment, tools, personnel or job-related know-how) for the benefit of other business or personal interests; and Engaging in outside activities that may adversely affect your impartiality or judgment or that may interfere with or adversely affect your ability to perform your official duties.
3- Bribery & Corruption

Corruption is any abuse of an official position for personal gain. Bribery is a form of corruption. You must not offer, solicit or accept a bribe in any form and not permit any third parties acting on behalf of KPC to do so. You may not accept any gift, payment or bribe, or anything else of value, whether directly or indirectly, from any person for the purpose of influencing an official act or decision, or to obtain, retain or direct business to any company or person.

4- Gifts & Entertainment

In principle, there is nothing wrong with receiving or giving gifts of appreciation of nominal value and of a promotional nature endorsed with a corporate logo such as calendars, diaries, pen sets and calculators. However, if you receive any gift valued at over KD100 or the local currency equivalent or any lesser amount stipulated in your local policy, you must declare the same to your supervisor.

You are also prohibited from offering any gift to anyone employed by an outside organization, government department, or anyone else with whom KPC has or may be in the process of developing a business relationship where the giving of such a gift violates the regulations issued by your company or the laws governing the recipient.

5- Outside Employment

Generally, KPC's employment contracts prohibit any employment outside KPC, except pro bono work at registered charitable organizations. Accordingly, we will strictly enforce this provision and any employee who violates this prohibition will be subject to disciplinary action, including termination of employment.

We recognize, however, that some KPC companies' employment contracts may permit outside employment by employees so long as it does not interfere with an employee's official duties. In those cases, you are advised that outside employment could give rise to a conflict of interest with respect to your continued employment. Therefore, if your company permits outside employment, you must obtain written approval from your Managing Director (or the manager to whom he has delegated that responsibility) before accepting any supplemental job. You must also notify your supervisor if your duties in outside employment change significantly.

In either case, you must devote all official working time to work duties and not engage in any other duties without permission from the Personnel Department.

6- Preventing Fraud & Theft

Fraud and theft are violations of the law and of this Code of Conduct. Types of fraud and theft include but are not limited to:

Falsifying contractual issues such as receipts, charges, quantities, quality, etc.;
Falsifying qualifications and experience;
Misappropriation of funds;
Deliberate misinterpretation of information;
Unauthorized use of contractor manpower, vehicles and equipment; and
Misuse of budget funding, including petty cash, vouchers etc.
You should seek advice from your supervisor or the Compliance Officer before entering into an activity that could be construed as fraud or theft.
I pledge to act ethically
1- Information and Knowledge Management

We are very much aware of the need to control the flow of data, information and knowledge from within KPC and to protect and maintain the knowledge that currently resides here. Deliberate misuse by you of KPC's knowledge for personal gain or for the benefit of a competitor is a serious breach of your contract and shall be subject to disciplinary action. Accordingly, when sharing information with those outside KPC, it is imperative that you obtain prior authorization to do so from your supervisor or the General Counsel.

2- Requests for Employee Information

In order to insure the accuracy and objectivity of information concerning current or former employees, you are required to refer any calls or written requests to release information about other employees, such as personnel, medical and other records, to the Personnel Department.

Any employee who examines or releases information about a current or former employee without specific authorization will be subject to disciplinary action.

3- Representing or Speaking On

Behalf of KPC KPC's interest is to develop a positive relationship with members of the media, government officials, community leaders and business partners.

All public relations activities and contact with the media and senior government officials must be handled only by or with the approval of the responsible Managing Director. You must be careful to distinguish between speaking personally and in an official capacity on behalf of KPC. If you do not have explicit authority to make statements to the media and you receive enquiries from a media representative, you must make no comment other than to refer the media representative to the Media Relations Department. Any statements or press releases must be cleared in advance by the Media Relations Department if they involve KPC's business.

4- Information Technology Privacy, Security and Copyrights

We use modern information technology systems to facilitate our work. In giving employees and authorized contractors access to this technology, we also expect personnel to be responsible in its use. You must be careful not to be involved in unauthorized actions such as:

Accessing or attempting to access data, files or directories of others on their PCs or directories;
Violating KPC computer users' policies;
Tampering with software or hardware;
Illegal copying of copyrighted software;
Illegal photocopying of copyrighted documents;
Releasing of confidential data or sharing of confidential information with others;
Attempting to intrude or hack into KPC's computers or PCs; and
Unauthorized use or disclosure of user ID's and passwords.
You should be aware that KPC may monitor computer use, including email, to verify compliance with its computer users' policies. Any violations will be subject to disciplinary action.

5- Confidential Information

Many of our employees have been placed in positions of trust or confidence because of the work they perform and therefore are exposed to or have access to KPC funds, employee payroll data, personnel records, employee billing records, vendor and service contracts, operational data, license agreement, computerized information, financial information and other types of sensitive information that is considered confidential or personal in nature.

Whether you are a current or former employee, you are reminded of the covenants of confidentiality in your employment contract and that revealing any type of confidential or sensitive information to unauthorized persons or tampering with or altering KPC records and/ or property is a violation of that trust and may result in disciplinary or legal action, including termination of employment. If you have any questions or doubts about what is considered confidential information or may constitute a violation of trust, you are urged to seek advice from the Compliance Officer. Former employees shall not release any information without prior written approval from KPC.
Lanxess
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Combined


LANXESS CodE of
BuSiNESS EthiCS ANd CoNduCt
United States
ouR VALuES
Respect for People and Nature
   Valuing others’ perspectives and cultures within and outside of the Company.
   Providing opportunities for people to reach their full potential.
   Partnering effectively with others.
   Treating others fairly.
   Giving safety, health, environmental, and climate protection the highest priority.
   Sustainable development.
Integrity, Openness, and Honesty
   Accepting responsibility for results.
   Acting responsibly and being a reliable partner.
   Being open to the ideas of others and giving good feedback.
   Having the courage to tell the truth.
   Showing respect for laws, rules, and regulations.
As a global enterprise, LANXESS shares a common set of values. While many rules and regulations change frequently, our common values endure and help us judge how to proceed in challenging situ- ations. these values represent the spirit and credo of our Company. they are the foundation for LANXESS’s performance.
A Will to Succeed
   A personal commitment to a standard of excellence.
   Raising the performance expectations for everyone.
   Consistently outperforming the competition.
   Looking for creative and innovative solutions.
   Focusing on effective outcomes.
A Passion for Our Stakeholders (Customers, Employees, Shareholders)
   Focusing energy on the needs of our customers.
   Showing a clear conviction for delivering value.
   Developing our skills to create value for mutual benefit.
   Dedicating ourselves to quality and reliability.
   Creating value for our shareholders.
iNtRoduCtioN
Our Code’s Purpose
At LANXESS Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively “LANXESS” or “Company”), we strive to do the right thing in all our business dealings. Ethical conduct is one of the essential factors that help us focus on our future success. Our Code is a guide to help us achieve that goal, a resource for making sound decisions in all situations. It outlines our values as a Company and explains how those values inform our daily operations. Finally, by setting forth our principles in a clear fashion, our Code helps us main- tain the trust we have built with our fellow employees and other stakeholders—which plays a key role in our continued success.
Because this document cannot cover every possible workplace scenario, and local law may change or differ from what  is stated in our Code, additional resources are listed throughout our Code. These resources include LANXESS policies, procedures and Global Directives, as contained in LEXCORE as well as people who will be able to assist you. Keep in mind that LANXESS expects all employees to comply fully with all applicable laws, even those that vary from the expectations created by this document. If you ever have doubts about the correct course of action, it is important to seek guidance before acting.
In addition, our Code is harmonized with the Global Compliance Code and is meant to reinforce the core message that the LANXESS Group is committed to the unconditional observance of applicable law and conducting its operations according to ethical principles.
We All Follow Our Code
Our Code applies to all employees, offi and directors of LANXESS. We also expect our suppliers, agents, business part- ners, consultants, and licensees to follow similar principles. We all have a responsibility to follow our Code and any applicable laws and regulations in effect in the places where we do business. In addition, we are each responsible for seeking guidance when there is a question regarding the correct course of action. A list of contacts by topic is provided at the end of the Code. All of us at LANXESS are responsible for ethical behavior and should be alert for any potential wrongdoing in our workplaces. If you know of or suspect misconduct, you are expected to either address the situation directly, if appropriate, or raise it to your manager or another appropriate resource so that the issue is adequately and promptly resolved.
Violations of our Code, the law, Company policies or Global Directives can result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. If warranted, LANXESS may also refer misconduct to appropriate legal authorities, which may subject those involved to civil and/or criminal liability.
 Formula X
During the course of your work at LANXESS, you might face an ethical dilemma in which you are uncertain about the right course of action. Keep in mind Formula X in these instances—you can take ownership of the situation by seeking a solution from Com- pany resources such as the policies and contacts listed throughout our Code. In addition, you are required to immediately report any known or suspected violations of our Code or applicable law. By doing so, you are upholding our Company’s core values, help- ing to ensure an ethical culture at LANXESS, and allowing our Company to take action to remedy the problem before it becomes widespread.
When making a report, you are encouraged to discuss the matter with your immediate manager first. However, if you are uncomfort- able speaking with your manager for any reason, you are encour- aged to contact:
   Any Vice President of LANXESS
   The General Counsel of LANXESS
   The Chief Compliance Officer
   The LANXESS Ethics & Compliance Hotline at 800-780-9532
   The points of contact specified at the end of this Code
Reports to the Hotline may be made anonymously. Please keep in mind, however, that it may be more difficult for our Company to thoroughly investigate reports that are made anonymously, so you are encouraged to provide as much information as possible when reporting. All reports will be kept confidential to the maxi- mum extent possible, consistent with local law.
Our Company will investigate all reports promptly and thoroughly. LANXESS will take appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment for Code violations when- ever necessary. Furthermore, our Company does not under any circumstance tolerate retaliation against anyone who raises con- cerns in good faith. A good-faith report is truthful, accurate, and complete to the best of your knowledge. If you know of or suspect illegal or unethical conduct is taking place, you do not need to be certain about all details in order to report it. Just be honest and provide all the details you can, and you will be protected from retaliation.
If you or someone you know has experienced or observed retaliation at LANXESS, report it immediately to any of the resources listed in this Code. No employee or other representa- tive of LANXESS is permitted to discourage or obstruct another employee from making a report or participating in an investiga- tion. Retaliation of any kind by any employee for any reason is strictly prohibited.
RESPECt foR PEoPLE ANd NAtuRE
Diversity and Inclusion
At LANXESS, we take pride in our diversity. We are an inter- national company, and we take advantage of that aspect of our business to facilitate growth and development opportunities throughout our Company. In fact, LANXESS supports intercultural projects throughout the world that bring people together, transfer knowledge, and offer talented employees opportunities for further development. Because we all bring a variety of experiences, edu- cation, and beliefs to the table, we are able to build upon each other’s knowledge and create something better than the sum of our parts. At LANXESS, we truly believe that our diversity is one of our greatest strengths.
Non-Discrimination and Equal Opportunities
Our Company believes we succeed when we all contribute. We must respect each other’s rights and cultural differences so that we can all reach our fullest potential. Not only does our Company seek to promote diversity, but it also provides equal opportuni- ties to all employees and applicants for employment. This means that LANXESS will never make employment-based decisions because of a person’s race, color, ethnicity, sexual orientation, sex, age, religion, or any other classification protected by appli- cable law. Decisions about hiring, firing, promoting, training, or any other aspect of a person’s job will be made based on merit and qualification.
Our respect for individual rights also means that we do not dis- criminate based on a person’s choice to join (or not join) unions or other collective bargaining associations. In addition, as confirmed by our support of the UN Global Compact, LANXESS abides by all applicable hour and wage laws in the locations where we do business, and never engages in child or forced labor in any of our operations. We expect our business partners to respect these same human rights.
Harassment and Violence Free Workplace
Respecting our colleagues means keeping harassment, violence, and other unwelcome behavior out of the workplace. LANXESS is committed to a harassment-free work environment, which means our Company will not tolerate any behavior that has the purpose or effect of creating a hostile, offensive, or intimidating workplace. Keep in mind that harassment is any unwelcome behavior based upon a person’s legally protected classification. It can include (but is not limited to) obscene jokes, offensive displays of materi- als, and—in the case of sexual harassment—requests for sexual favors or inappropriate touching or leering. Harassment can also include acts of bullying, intimidation, or exclusion. To foster an environment of respect and inclusion, we must not engage in any form of unlawful harassment, whether verbal, physical, or visual. Similarly, we must not exhibit offensive or inappropriate behavior that makes our colleagues feel uncomfortable or unsafe.
If you believe you have been the victim of harassment, or if you witness harassing behavior, you must report it immediately. Review the Introduction to this Code for more information on how to report.
Likewise, violence and threats of violence are disruptive behav- iors that do not belong in the workplace. If you feel threatened at work, or witness any violent behavior, you must report it right away. You should feel free to contact local authorities first if you are concerned for anyone’s immediate safety.
Employee Privacy
Maintaining respect in the workplace also means protecting one another’s privacy. As employees, we all share certain private information with LANXESS—including contact information, per- formance reviews, salary history, and health information. Each of us has a duty to ensure we safeguard the private data of our coworkers in accordance with all applicable privacy and data pro- tection laws, as well as Company policies. To the extent that your job entails access to this type of information, you should only use it for legitimate business purposes. Moreover, only share such information—even within our Company—with those who have a business need to know it.
 Health, Environment, and Safety
At LANXESS, we assign the highest priority to protecting the environment and the health and safety of our fellow employees, customers, and communities. Xact is Safety at LANXESS. We consider safety a key focus. Our success depends on our opera- tions running smoothly, cost-effectively, and in full compliance with all applicable legal requirements. To this end, we comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and implement responsible prac- tices where laws and regulations do not exist. Further, we work with government and industry groups to foster the development of appropriate health, environment, and safety programs, laws, and regulations. We also strive to communicate clearly with key stakeholders—our fellow employees at LANXESS as well as our customers, suppliers, and the public—to improve their under- standing of the health, environment, and safety considerations related to our operations and products. All of us play a pivotal role in identifying risks early on and eliminating potential hazards for people and the environment.
Environmental Principles
Every LANXESS employee is responsible for environmental pro- tection. To this end, LANXESS strongly supports the Responsible Care® initiative. By applying the principles of the Responsible Care® Charter, we are continually improving our efforts to protect the environment, improve health, help ensure safety, and con- tribute to a good quality of life for everyone. We believe that only sustainable developments and responsible actions can guarantee a successful future.
LANXESS will comply with all applicable regulatory requirements to help ensure environmentally responsible production, transpor- tation, handling, use, recycling, and disposal of its products and packaging. In addition, our Company provides its employees and customers with information, training, and assistance to maintain environmental compliance and support the Responsible Care initiative.
 Sustainability
LANXESS’s approach to sustainability can be summed up in one sentence: What’s good for business can also be good for society. Together, we use our know-how and experience to develop sus- tainable products and technologies that are friendly to the climate and the environment in the long term, and also improve people’s quality of life.
To do this, we take the needs of current and future generations into account, balancing short-term results with the long-term require- ments demanded of us in all of our business dealings. Together, we form robust networks for successful cooperation and build con- fidence in LANXESS’s future, applying the spirit of responsibility and sustainable development throughout our operations.
Occupational Safety and Health Principles
By adhering to safe work practices such as industry, corporate, and site hygiene procedures, every LANXESS employee contrib- utes to a safe workplace. Continuous improvements in safety and health measures help us work toward our shared goal of keeping our facilities and operations as dependably safe as possible. To this end, LANXESS has initiated Xact, which implements practices that meet or exceed industry requirements.
Substance Abuse
LANXESS is committed to maintaining a work environment free of substance abuse. To that end, no one may possess, distrib- ute, sell, consume, or use any controlled substance, illegal drug, or misused prescription drug on Company property, while using Company equipment (including fleet vehicles), or while conduct- ing Company business.
Consumption of alcohol is permitted at Company-sponsored events when alcohol is served with the permission of senior management.
Because it can also impair our judgment and ability to do our jobs safely, it is also against Company policy to be under the influence of alcoholic beverages while in a manufacturing environment.
iNtEgRity, oPENNESS, ANd hoNESty
Anti-Corruption
We operate with integrity throughout the world. It is critical to our success that we continue to gain business because of our solid reputation and quality products, not because of any ill-achieved gains or corrupt activities. This means we adhere to anti-corruption laws in the United States and abroad, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”).
These laws make it illegal to offer, pay, or authorize the payment of bribes to foreign public officials. A bribe is anything of value given in an attempt to obtain or retain business or influence an official action. A public official can be a member of any foreign government body or political party or public international organi- zation, a candidate for foreign public office, or an employee of a foreign government-owned or operated enterprise. Making such payments through a third party (such as an agent, distributor, or sales representative) is also prohibited.
In addition, it is against LANXESS policy to offer or pay kickbacks, which are payments made in exchange for fostering business or facilitating payments, which are small sums (typically paid in cash) to expedite routine services such as connecting utilities or processing a visa.
If you suspect any prohibited payments are being made, or have been made, on LANXESS’s behalf, you must report it immediately.
Money Laundering
LANXESS is committed to fighting money laundering in the coun- tries where we do business. Money laundering is the process by which individuals or entities move criminal funds through the financial system in order to hide traces of their criminal origin, or otherwise try to make these funds look legitimate.
If you see any of the following, you should report the matter immediately:
   Payments made in currencies other than those specified in the invoice
   Attempts to make payments in cash or a cash equivalent
   Payments made by a third-party not involved in the contract or an account other than the normal business relationship account
   Requests or attempts to make payments for each invoice or group of invoices through multiple forms of payment
   Requests to make an overpayment
   Any other unusual practice or behavior that you suspect may involve money laundering
Conflicts of Interest
We all owe a duty of loyalty to our Company, which means we have a responsibility to act in LANXESS’s best interests at all times. A conflict of interest can arise whenever our personal inter- ests or activities interfere with (or appear to interfere with) our work for LANXESS. Such scenarios make it difficult to maintain our impartiality and make solid, objective business decisions for our Company. If you think you have a conflict of interest, of if one arises, you must disclose it.
Outside Employment or Financial Interests
We are expected to avoid outside employment that could interfere with our job performance, whether because of time commitments or loyalty concerns. In general, this means we may not work for a customer, supplier, business partner, or competitor while we are employed by LANXESS. If there is any doubt whether out- side employment is appropriate, seek the approval of the Law & IP Department (hereinafter also referred to as “LIP”). LANXESS reserves the right to deny such requests.
In addition, employees cannot make material investments in our customers, suppliers, or competitors because of the risk that such investments will skew our ability to act in LANXESS’ best interests. A material investment is an investment in any one company that exceeds the greater of $10,000 market value or three percent of the company’s total outstanding stock.
Serving on a Board of Directors
Likewise, we may not serve as a director or officer of a business concern organized for profit without the prior written consent of LANXESS’s President and CEO. Serving as a member of a board of a nonprofit organization is typically allowed, so long as those responsibilities do not interfere with your ability to do your work at LANXESS.
Working with family members
Because we all want what is best for our family members, a conflict can arise when we work with family, particularly if there is also a reporting relationship involved. Whenever possible, LANXESS will avoid placing family members in such a situation. If one develops, you have a duty to disclose it so that arrangements can be made to remove the conflict. For more information, refer to the Employee Handbook.
Doubtful cases
Under no circumstances may we allow our personal relationships or interests to be factors in awarding a contract. LANXESS relies on our sound judgment and good intentions. We are all expected to seek advice when unsure of the proper course of action. Bring doubtful cases that could be conflicts of interest to the attention of your supervisor or another point of contact listed at the end of this Code. Such cases will be reviewed in confidence, to the extent possible.
Insider Trading
You may come across inside information about our Company, customers, or business partners through the course of your work for LANXESS. Inside information is material nonpublic informa- tion, meaning it has not yet been released publicly and a rea- sonable investor would consider it useful in deciding whether to buy or sell a security of the company to which it pertains. Buying or selling securities based on inside information is considered insider trading. Insider trading is illegal and could lead to severe consequences for both the individual involved and our Company. Tipping, or providing inside information to another person for his or her personal financial gain, is also illegal. In no instance should you use, disclose, or share inside information about our Company or a company with which we do business.
Examples of inside information include (but are not limited to):
   Earnings forecasts
   Possible acquisitions or joint ventures
   Acquisition or loss of a significant contract
   Dividend actions
   Important product developments
   Significant financing developments
   Major personnel changes
   Major litigation developments
If you have questions about what constitutes material informa- tion or whether it is appropriate to trade, you should discuss the matter with the General Counsel or any attorney in the Law & IP Department.
Gifts, Entertainment, and Travel
Our business depends on creating productive, successful relation- ships with suppliers and customers. These relationships must be based on sound, fair business decisions. LANXESS recognizes that modest, sensible entertainment can be part of the normal course of doing business. However, we should not offer or accept gifts, entertainment, or travel if it will obligate or appear to obli- gate the recipient. Further, as the value of gifts, entertainment or travel increases, the potential for an actual or perceived conflict of interest also increases.
Also remember that there are clear and generally obvious forms of gifts, entertainment, and travel that are never permissible and constitute a clear violation of our Code. These include:
   Cash (including chips for gambling), loans, stocks, or stock options
   Any item provided in direct exchange (“quid pro quo”) for a reciprocal action
   Any item that is illegal, sexually explicit, or would violate our
commitment of respect toward all those we deal with
   Any item offered during the process of a competitive bid or
contract negotiation with a supplier or customer that has the potential or appears to have the potential to infl    the negotiations
We are all expected to conduct business with integrity, in com- pliance with applicable laws, and in a manner that excludes personal gain. Employees will be reimbursed for all expenses that are necessary and actually incurred when traveling and/or entertaining on authorized Company business in accordance with Company policy. It is your responsibility to submit timely and accurate expense reports in compliance with the applicable policy and procedures. Failure to file an expense report to account for Company funds, or submitting or approving false information, can result in disciplinary action, including termination.
We are all expected to conduct business with integrity, in compliance with applicable laws, and in a manner that excludes personal gain.
 Global Trade
Exports
As a global company, we move our products and people all over the world. Because we do business in the United States, we comply with all applicable provisions of U.S. export control laws and regulations, as well as international regulations and internal global procedures and policies.
All exports from the U.S. are subject to U.S. export laws. In some instances, an export license or some other type of prior authori- zation may be required before export can lawfully occur. Licens- ing requirements may also apply to re-export of U.S. originating materials from non-U.S. locations. The specific type of license or other action required is determined by the nature of the items or technology involved, the destination of the export, and the export’s intended use.
Keep in mind that an export occurs when a product, service, tech- nology, or piece of information is shipped to a person in another country. An export can also occur when technology, technical infor- mation or software is provided in any way, including verbally, to a foreign citizen located in either the United States or elsewhere.
Imports
LANXESS depends on its ability to successfully import products manufactured abroad. Therefore, we are committed to working with the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to help ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
If you transport and/or use goods and technology subject to export or import controls, you must know and follow the relevant laws, regulations, and related company policies and control practices. Consequences for violating trade control laws and regulations are severe for both our Company and the individuals involved, includ- ing delays or seizure of shipments, the potential loss of export/ import privileges and civil and criminal penalties. LANXESS’s commitment extends from senior management to all employees involved in the importation and exportation of LANXESS products. If you have any questions about exports, re-exports, or imports, please contact one of the resources listed at the end of this Code.
Boycotts and Sanctions
It is our policy to comply with U.S. trade and economic sanctions. This means we cannot participate in any unsanctioned boycotts, such as the Arab League boycott of Israel. If you receive a request to enter into such an agreement or furnish information support- ing such a boycott (or if you are unsure), inform the Manager of International Trade and Compliance.
For an up-to-date list of entities with which we cannot do business, contact the Manager of International Trade and Compliance.
 Political and Charitable Activities
There are stringent legal restrictions on corporate political con- tributions in the United States. For this reason, you may not use Company funds or assets to contribute—directly or indirectly—to any federal, state or local election or in connection with any other political activity without prior written approval of LANXESS’s Gen- eral Counsel. This means we cannot make payments from or loan corporate resources to political campaigns or other fundraising event. Remember as well that we cannot use company time, prop- erty or equipment for our personal political activities or expressing our personal political views.
Lobbying
Corporate lobbying activities are governed by strict rules in many countries where we operate. In the U.S., lobbyists must be regis- tered, and their work must be disclosed to the government. Lob- bying includes many kinds of activities, including:
   Contact with legislators, regulators, executive branch officials, or their staff
   Making or negotiating sales for government contracts
   Efforts to influence legislative or administrative action
Before engaging in any activities that could be considered lob- bying or political activity, contact LANXESS’s General Counsel.
Accurate Accounting, Pricing, and Billing
Our Company has a responsibility to furnish reliable financial infor- mation on a timely basis to various users. Each of us has a respon- sibility to ensure that this documentation is honest, accurate, and complete. We do this by properly documenting and recording all funds, assets, and transactions. We follow our Company’s system of internal controls and all applicable accounting requirements when recording this data. Finally, under no circumstances may we establish any undisclosed or unrecorded fund.
 LANXESS will establish prices for its products and services that are fair and reasonably reflect their cost, the technology involved, market conditions, and all other relevant factors. Our prices should be clear, accurate, and presented in a way that will be fully under- stood by the customer. Similarly, invoices must accurately reflect the product sold or services rendered, the true sales price, and terms of sale. Payments received in excess of amounts billed must be promptly refunded or customer accounts credited, as appropriate. Special billing or payment procedures that suggest possible violations of law (for example, evasion of sales or income tax) are prohibited.
Fraud
As part of our commitment to doing business honestly and keeping accurate records, we must never misrepresent ourselves or have any role in creating any fraudulent documents, for any reason. In fact, fraud comes in many forms and each of us is responsible for preventing it at our Company. This means we never:
   Make a false entry on Company books or records, or estab- lish an undisclosed fund
   Misuse funds, equipment, supplies, or other assets
   Improperly report financial transactions
   Destroy, remove, or inappropriately use records, furniture, fixtures, or equipment
Simply put, we may not use Company funds or resources for any unethical purpose. Committing fraud is illegal and may subject those responsible—and our Company—to civil and criminal pen- alties. If you suspect any act of fraud, you have a responsibility to immediately report the matter.
Records Management and Destruction
In addition to ensuring the accuracy of our books and records, we must maintain LANXESS’s business records for the periods specified in our Records Management Policy or the more specific policies of the applicable Business Unit or Group Function. Except as noted below, only destroy or discard records at the expiration of the pertinent period.
Exception: In no case should you discard, destroy, alter, or purge documents or information (whether electronic or paper) relating to any pending, threatened, or contemplated litigation or government investigation, regardless of the periods specified in the Records Management Policy. Always cooperate with legal hold requests. If you have been notified or have a reasonable belief that such an action, inquiry, or investigation is upcoming, you should report it immediately to the General Counsel.
A WiLL to SuCCEEd
Fair Competition
At LANXESS, we believe in competing vigorously and fairly. As a Company, we are subject to various competition laws (known in the U.S. as antitrust laws), which seek to maintain fairness in the marketplace by prohibiting unreasonable restraints on trade. In essence, these laws require that companies act independently and sell their products fairly and honestly based on price, quality, and service.
To comply with competition laws, we may not enter into agree- ments—whether formal or informal—with our customers, suppli- ers, or other business partners that may limit competition. Such prohibited agreements include:
   Price fixing
   Market allocation
   Boycotts of particular customers or suppliers

In addition, please consult with the Law & IP Department before entering into an agreement that ties the sale of one product on the condition that the buyer purchases a different product.
Please note that even a simple exchange of information can create the appearance of an informal understanding. If a competi- tor attempts to discuss any of the above topics with you, stop the conversation immediately and report the incident immediately.
Keep in mind that all employees have a duty to report actual or suspected violations of this policy. Violations will subject the individuals involved to disciplinary action, up to and including termination depending on the seriousness of the offense.
 At LANXESS, we believe in competing vigorously and fairly.
Likewise, the following sources of information are never acceptable to use:
   A competitor’s confidential or proprietary information.
   Confidential or proprietary information in any form that fellow employees have from prior employers.
   Non-public information about a competitor’s bid, especially on government contracts.
   Information on a competitor or third party that someone offers to sell.
if you come into possession of such information, even inad- vertently, report it immediately.
We never misrepresent our identity in order to gather informa- tion. In addition, certain questionable information gathering tech- niques may be legal in some locations but are still prohibited by LANXESS, such as:
   Visual and/or audio surveillance of a third party’s (including a competitor’s) operations, even if the surveillance is conducted from public property or public access areas.

   Dumpster diving through trash that has been placed curbside.
Competitive Information
To compete in the marketplace, it may be necessary to gather market or competitive information. We are committed to doing so within the letter and spirit of the law. At LANXESS, we do not gather information using any illegal or improper means.
for reference, legitimate sources of market or competitive information include:
   Newspapers, press accounts, government records/filings, and other public information.
   Customers, who may give you information about a third party (including a competitor), but only if it is not confidential. Con- sult the Law & Intellectual Property Department if it involves a government bid.
   Trade shows (but not undisclosed information from competitors).
   Information publicly available on the Internet.
   Industry surveys by reputable consultants acting under a con- sulting/services agreement approved by the Law & Intellectual Property Department.
If you have a question about whether it is appropriate to accept or have certain market or competitive information or are uncertain about a particular method of information gathering, refer to the points of contact at the end of this Code.
 Protecting Company Assets
All of us are responsible for the careful and proper use of Com- pany assets at all times. This means we must work to protect Company property from theft, damage, loss, and misuse. This includes LANXESS’s physical assets, such as its facilities, equip- ment, vehicles, software, computers, and funds, as well as its network and computer systems. We not only work to protect these assets, but also ensure we use them for appropriate business purposes at all times.
Similarly, we must only use our Company’s information technology (IT) to advance LANXESS’s interests. LANXESS’s IT includes, but is not limited to, computer equipment, handheld devices, soft- ware, operating systems, email network accounts, voicemail and storage media. While we are allowed limited personal use of our Company’s IT, this use should not detract from our ability to per- form our job duties. Also, ensure that this use does not violate any Company policy or applicable law. LANXESS reserves the right to monitor all usage of its network and computer systems. Keep in mind that, as LANXESS employees, we have no expectation of privacy when using the Company’s IT.
We all have a responsibility to safeguard LANXESS’s intellectual property (IP) and confidential information—information that is of a competitive nature or has potential commercial value.
Intellectual Property and Confidential Information
We all have a responsibility to safeguard LANXESS’s intellectual property (IP) and confidential information—information that is of a competitive nature or has potential commercial value. Such infor- mation generally includes any nonpublic or undisclosed informa- tion that could be of use to competitors or could bring harm to our Company if disclosed, including:
   Product formulas
   Trade secrets
   Logos, brands, and other copyrighted materials
   Contract documentation
   Business processes
   Corporate strategies and plans
   Customer lists
This means we must not disclose or transfer any such information or materials to anyone outside our Company without fi st obtaining the necessary approvals and executing a Confidentiality Agree- ment reviewed by the Law & Intellectual Property Department. Even within our Company, we should only share protected infor-mation with those who have a business need to know it.
Using the IP of others
Just as we protect our own IP and confidential information, LANXESS will comply with all legal and contractual obligations safeguarding the IP rights and confidential information of third parties such as our customers, suppliers, and other business partners. This may include:
   Third-party patents and trademarks
   Business records or data
   Personal and financial information

In addition to safeguarding such information, we always follow our obligations under all applicable IP and copyright laws. This means, in part, that we do not download unlicensed software or use other copyrighted materials (such as trademarked names or registered designs) without the owner’s permission. Doing so is unlawful and can subject both LANXESS and any employee making such copies to serious legal consequences. Keep in mind that we do not necessarily have permission to use material just because it is available publicly.
 Computer security
Part of keeping our information secure is ensuring our information and communications systems (including our computers, email, and telephones) are protected at all times. We do this through proper use of these systems, which means keeping the following in mind:
   Do not share passwords and choose passwords that are unique and difficult to guess
   Keep portable equipment (such as laptops and smartphones) secure, especially when traveling or working remotely
   Remember that all such equipment and the information con- tained on it belongs to our Company
   You should have no expectation of privacy when using Com- pany computer equipment, in accordance with applicable laws
Social Media
LANXESS understands that social media platforms are changing the way the world shares information. Such media include blogs, micro blogs such as Twitter®, social networking sites such as Facebook® and LinkedIn®, wikis, photo/video sharing sites, and chat rooms. Many of us use these tools in our personal lives, and our Company takes advantage of them to market our products and brands. However, you must be careful not to speak or act on our Company’s behalf on social media unless you are authorized to do so.
If you believe you have witnessed the inappropriate use of com- pany technologies or electronic communications on social media, report the matter immediately. If you have any questions about who may communicate on a given issue, or whether a communica- tion is appropriate, please see our Public Communications Policy.
 A PASSioN foR
ouR StAkEhoLdERS
 
Quality Products and Services
We manufacture our products in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. In addition, we fulfill our contracts in an ethi- cal manner, following all contract specifications. In the event an actual or potential product safety issue arises, report the matter immediately.
In order to maintain our reputation for supplying the highest qual- ity products and services and assure the continued confidence of customers, suppliers, and the public, it is important that we refrain from any illegal or unethical selling and marketing practices.
We manufacture our products in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. In addition,
we fulfill our contracts in an ethical manner, following all contract specifications.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct
Likewise, LANXESS expects our suppliers to guarantee the safety and performance of the products and services they provide us. This confidence in our suppliers helps us to vouch for the quality and safety of the products and services we provide our customers.
We expect our business partners to uphold basic human rights in their employment practices, including all wage, hour, and freedom of association laws in place in the locations they do business. Further, we expect our business partners not to employ child or forced labor. If you have reason to believe any of our business partners are violating these principles, please report the matter immediately.
Commitment to Our Business Partners
Our Company’s reputation depends on the integrity and quality of our products. By taking personal responsibility for product qual- ity, we earn the continued confidence of our business partners, customers, suppliers, and the public. To this end, we have a duty to promote our products appropriately and never engage in any illegal or unethical selling and marketing practices. We also strive to make our product and pricing information as clear, accurate, and concise as possible.
We can also help our business partners by making sure that we understand their requirements so that we can provide realistic proposals on performance, cost, and schedule. Contractual obli- gations must also be clearly defined so that all of us understand and execute our responsibilities uniformly, and so our customers are sure they are receiving the goods and services they need.
Government Contracting
LANXESS may be involved with government-related contracts from time-to-time. This could be through a direct contract with a federal, state, or local government customer or as a subcontrac- tor. If the ultimate user is a government entity, LANXESS may be considered a government contractor and subject to a number of requirements. As with all of our business dealings, LANXESS must ensure that it always acts ethically, with the utmost integrity and always adheres to the highest standards of ethical conduct.
   Because government contracts subject LANXESS to special requirements, you must contact LIP for guidance prior to any government-related contracting. LIP will help you understand all obligations under a government contract and alert you to any potential issues.
the following are some of the unique compliance require- ments we must all be aware of:
   Country of origin: The Government can restrict the sales of items that do not originate from the United States or (in some cases) from an approved country. These Country of Origin requirements can vary depending on the agency and laws involved. It can be complicated to determine which Country of Origin requirements apply to a particular contract. You should consult the International Trade and Compliance Manager to ensure that LANXESS can comply with all Country of Origin requirements on a Government contract.
   Procurement integrity: Government contracts are subject to the U.S. Procurement Integrity Act (PIA), which restricts the release of certain confi   information that, if released, would undermine the fairness and integrity of Government competitive procurements. To comply with the PIA, you should not obtain Government Source-Selection Information or com- petitor proprietary or trade secret information, such as bid or proposal information. Generally, Government Source-Selec- tion Information includes nonpublic information that is prepared for a Federal agency to use in evaluating a bid or proposal for a Federal procurement contract. None of us should ever seek or accept such restricted information. Any potential violations should be promptly reported.
   Certifications and Representations: LANXESS has a duty to ensure that the certifications and representations it makes to the Government are current, accurate, and complete. Prior to making any certifications or representations to the Govern- ment, you are responsible for reviewing the certifi ion or representation for accuracy.
   Anti-kickback Act: A “kickback” is any money, fee, commis- sion, gift, gratuity, or thing of value which is provided directly or indirectly to any prime contractor, prime contractor employee, subcontractor, or subcontractor employee for the purpose of improperly obtaining or rewarding favorable treatment in con- nection with a prime contract or in connection with a subcon- tract relating to a prime contract The Anti-Kickback Act makes it illegal to give, attempt to give, accept, or attempt to accept a kickback.
   Human Trafficking: The Government employs a zero toler- ance approach to human traffi   Under federal regula- tions, LANXESS and its employees cannot engage in human trafficking, procure commercial sex acts, or use forced labor while performing government contracts. LANXESS is required to notify the Government of any information from any source alleging violations of the zero tolerance human traffi policy and report on disciplinary actions taken against indi- viduals involved.
Authority to Act
While LANXESS encourage us to take on extra responsibilities and to be driven at work, each of us must also be careful not to act outside the scope of our employment. If you have questions about whether an action is acceptable, seek advice from your supervisor.

The following are specific areas that require attention:

   Responding to inquiries from the media: To ensure that we portray our Company accurately and consistently to our external stakeholders, only designated LANXESS repre- sentatives may make corporate communications. Refer any inquiries from members of the media, investors, government officials and non-Company employees to the Vice President of Communications
Legal commitments on behalf of the Company: Any agree- ment that creates a legally binding obligation of the Company, for any purpose whatsoever, must be reviewed by the Law & IP Department and may only be signed by those authorized by the Company.
 


LG Chem
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: South Korea
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

LG Code of Ethics

We, at LG, share and believe in two key corporate principles - "Creating value for customers" and "Respecting human dignity." Based on these principles and in the spirit of our Management Charter, we strive to promote self-governing management and its accompanying responsibilities. It is our intention to uphold the principle of free market economy, which embodies the spirit of fair competition. We are committed to attaining our goal of becoming a global leader, and as such we will continuously pursue mutual benefits for our stakeholders on the basis of trust and cooperation. LG is committed to act uprightly and make value judgments in accordance to the code of ethics.

Chapter 1. Responsibilities and Obligations to Customers

We highly regard the opinions of our customers in the belief that they form the very basics of our business. We seek to secure unconditional trust from our customers by continuously providing them practical values.

1.  Respect for Customers
We value the opinions of our customers and validate their real needs at all times. Therefore we regard our customers as the primary standard for our decisions and conducts.

2.  Creating Value
We work to create value for our customers for it is through customer satisfaction that we build the foundation of our prosperity. We continuously create practical values that fully benefit and satisfy our customers.

3.  Providing Value
We are always truthful to our customers, and are bound to keep our promises. We offer top quality products and services to our customers at reasonable prices and respond to their requests with speed and accuracy.

Chapter 2. Fair Competition

Our global business activities conform to relevant laws and regulations of the host nations. At the same time, we employ only fair and just means in securing our competitive advantage in the global market.

1.  Pursuit of Free Competition
We uphold the principle of the free market economic system. Therefore we pursue
 
free competition and earn our customers' trust through top quality products and services. We compete fairly and capably with our competitors, but do not intrude upon their interests, or exploit their weaknesses.

2.  Compliance with Laws and Regulations
We conduct our domestic and overseas business activities in strict accordance with local laws and regulations, and with respect for local business customs.

Chapter 3. Fair Transactions

All business transactions will occur based on the principles of fair competition with equal opportunities for all entities to participate. We build trust and cooperative relationships through fair and transparent transactions. Such relationships are built with a long-term perspective for mutual growth.

1.  Equal Opportunity
We offer equal opportunities to all qualified companies seeking to become our business partners.
All applicants are registered and selected in a rational manner following a fair and objective evaluation process.

2.  Fair Transaction Procedures
All business transactions are conducted under equitable circumstances. The terms and procedures of the transaction are to be sufficiently discussed between parties involved. The use of prominence in position to execute an unjust transaction is forbidden. Information required for transaction is exchanged through appropriate procedures in timely manner. Transaction results are evaluated on a regular basis where complementary measures are mutually taken.

3.  Support and Aid for Business Partners
We support the long-term growth of our dealers and vendors by enhancing their competitiveness through technological and managerial assistance. We share the profits derived from business innovations.
We pursue cooperation with our dealers and vendors in a mutual effort to promote a healthy trading environment and maintain a fair trading system.

Chapter 4. Basic Ethics for Employees

Based on honesty and fairness, LG employees establish a correct values and fulfill the duties through continuous self-development and fairness in performance.
 
1.  Basic Ethics
LG employees take pride in their company and always maintain an honest and fair attitude. LG employees keep a high standard of morality and continuously strive to maintain their personal dignity and company's honor.

2.  Completion of Duty
LG employees faithfully accomplish their duties in compliance to the visions and policies of the company.
Assigned duties are carried out in the best possible and fairest manner while observing relevant laws and regulations.
LG employees protect and preserve company property and do not divulge confidential information gained during employment.
LG employees exert themselves in enhancing work efficiency through open communication and cooperation with colleagues and related departments.

3.  Self Development
LG employees formulate their respective ideal image of an exemplary employee and constantly strive to conform to the image through continuous self development.

4.  Fairness in Performance
LG employees carry out their duties based on honesty and fairness, seeking to foster a sound business culture.
While performing their duties, LG employees do not accept any form of financial benefit from interested parties that may obstruct fair judgment. LG employees do not participate in any immoral and unethical behaviors as prescribed by social norms in performing their duties to the company or in their personal lives.

5.  Avoidance of Conflict with Company Interests
LG employees avoid any individual behaviors or relationships that are in conflict with company interests.
LG employees do not use company property to pursue their personal interests without prior permission.

Chapter 5. Corporate Responsibilities to Employees

LG endeavors to respect the human dignity of its employees and provides fair treatment based on their abilities and performances. LG also strives to foster creativity among its employees.

1.  Respect for Human Dignity
LG treats each employee with trust and affection and places a high value on
 
individual human dignity.
LG takes great efforts to help employees attain pride and personal fulfillment by instilling a sense of ownership in their jobs.
LG establishes fair regulations and educational guidelines necessary for employees to perform their duties.

2.  Fair Treatment
LG offers equal opportunities to all its employees based on their abilities and talents. LG applies fair measures to evaluate abilities and performances of its employees and rewards them accordingly.

3.  Promoting Creativity
LG makes utmost efforts to promote a working environment conducive to creative thinking and autonomous behaviors.
LG develops and manages its human resources on a long-term basis and gives active support to cultivating employees’ abilities.
LG  creates a   mature  organizational  culture that    highlights  mutual  trust, understanding and respect for personal lifestyle.

Chapter 6. Responsibilities to Society and the Country

LG contributes to national welfare and social development through rational business expansion providing stable growth as a corporation and protecting stockholder’s interests.

1.  Rational Business Development
LG conducts its business with respect to the social values at home and abroad. LG promotes its business expansions based on stable corporate growth.

2.  Protection of Stockholder Interest
LG protects its stockholders' interests by earning healthy profits through effective management.

3.  Contribution to Social Development
LG  contributes  to  national  and  social  development  through  job  creation,  tax payment, and promotion of cultural and welfare programs.

4.  Environmental Conservation
LG strives to prevent environmental pollution and employs all measures necessary to conserve precious natural resources.
LyondellBasell
Region: WEOG
Country: Netherlands
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct
The Right Way I Every Day
 Every Day Excellence –
The Purpose of Our Code of Conduct
Welcome to Our Code
Welcome to our Code of Conduct (“Code”). The Code explains the behaviors expected of each of us and sets the standards of how we work together to achieve
our goals. In addition, our Code helps us maintain the trust we have built with our various stakeholders – our fellow employees, shareholders, local communities, customers and vendors – each of whom have an important role in the Company’s success. Most importantly, our Code outlines our expectations for doing business the right way, every day.
Who Must Follow Our Code and How
Our Code applies to all employees, officers, directors or anyone doing business on behalf of our Company.
In addition, we expect those we do business with to follow similar principles when working with LyondellBasell.
While everyone has a personal responsibility to abide by the Code when conducting business on behalf of our Company, supervisors and managers have additional obligations. If you are a supervisor or manager, you have a duty to act as an ethical role model for those who report to you.
You should never take any adverse action against someone for raising a good faith concern. Instead, you should reinforce the Code through your actions. If you become aware of a compliance lapse, it is your
responsibility to take the appropriate action and escalate as required.
Please read the Code carefully as you are expected to know and follow
it at all times. From time to time, you may be asked to indicate that you have read, understood and acknowledged our Code. Failure to read or acknowledge the standards
contained in the Code does not relieve your responsibility to comply with it
or any other LyondellBasell policies or procedures.
All references to our “Company” or “LyondellBasell” in our Code refer  to LyondellBasell Industries N.V., its subsidiaries and affiliates in which we have operational control through majority ownership, a services agreement, or other contractual arrangement and joint ventures that have adopted the Code.
Company Policies referred to in our Code can be found on Elements, the Company intranet.
Knowing and Following the Law
The Code is the cornerstone of our commitment to comply with the law, but the Code does not describe every law that may apply to you. As a global organization, our work is subject to the laws and regulations of many different countries. Each of us is responsible  for knowing and following these laws in addition to our Code, policies and procedures. If you believe there is a
confl   between the law of your country and another in which we do business, a confl    between the law and our Code, or a confl        between the law and anything you are asked to do, seek guidance by following the steps outlined below.
Where to Seek Guidance and Report Concerns
Collectively, we create and maintain an ethical culture at LyondellBasell. Therefore, you are expected to come forward with any questions or concerns you may have. If you need guidance, or if you would like to make a report, the following resources are available to you:
    Your supervisor or manager
    The Human Resources (HR) Department
    The Legal Department
    The Compliance Department
    The Ethics Helpline
(by phone or via www.lyondellbasell. ethicspoint.com)
Reports to the Ethics Helpline
Our Ethics Helpline is maintained by EthicsPoint, an independent third party provider. A report can be made via the telephone directly to an EthicsPoint representative or via the Internet.  The Ethics Helpline is available 24 hours a
day, seven days a week, with translators.
Where allowed by law, you may choose to make an anonymous report.
LyondellBasell will not attempt to identify you if you choose to remain anonymous. If you choose to make an anonymous report through EthicsPoint, the EthicsPoint system allows you and the investigator to have a confi    anonymous dialog.
When you make a report to the Ethics Helpline, EthicsPoint will forward your report to LyondellBasell’s Compliance Department for review.
We Do Not Tolerate Retaliation
We have a responsibility to our Company and each other, and we are expected
to report our concerns when we believe something improper or inappropriate has or may have taken place. However, it can be diffi    to uphold this responsibility when we fear retaliation. LyondellBasell does not tolerate retaliatory acts against anyone for making a report in good faith. When you make a report in “good faith,” it means you provide all of the information you have and you believe to be true.
Even if an investigation prompted by your report does not confi that misconduct has taken place, no action will be taken against you.
You should feel comfortable making a report to any of the resources listed in the “Where to Seek Guidance and Report Concerns” section. If you believe that
you or someone else has been retaliated against for raising a concern, you should bring this matter to the HR Department, Legal Department, Compliance Department or report it through the Ethics Helpline.
Consequences for Violating Our Code
Our Company takes Code violations very seriously. Individuals who violate the Code are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. In some locations, failing to report Code violations or misconduct may also result in civil and
criminal penalties and fi   Therefore, you are expected to report any suspected Code violation or misconduct immediately. The failure to do so may also be considered a violation of the Code.
Code Waivers
Waivers of the Code must be consistent with the New York Stock Exchange Rules.
Question
Simon thinks his supervisor might be falsifying records. At first, he feels like he should say something. Simon then worries his supervisor might find out he made a report and remove him from his current project. He’s worked very hard and can’t afford to compromise his job security over something like this. Simon decides it’s none of his business and doesn’t come forward with his concerns. What should he have done differently?
Answer
Simon should make the report and can do so anonymously through the Ethics Helpline. While he may worry that there may be consequences for doing so, he should know that our Company does not tolerate retaliation. Simon is making his report in good faith and LyondellBasell will make every effort to keep his identity confidential, consistent with local laws. Suspected Code violations are everyone’s business, as they have a direct impact on our Company’s reputation for integrity.
Every Day Excellence for Our People and Our Company
We Respect Our Fellow Employees
At LyondellBasell, we are dedicated to the highest standards of fairness and respect for every employee. To thrive in a global marketplace, we must respect, value and welcome the diverse perspectives
and backgrounds of each of our employees and stakeholders. Therefore, we encourage the open sharing of ideas and communications of problems. Each of us must support and promote a diverse workforce by respecting the various talents and opinions of our coworkers.
Unlawful Discrimination
LyondellBasell does not unlawfully discriminate against any person on any basis in any part of its global operations. We comply with applicable laws governing unlawful discrimination in employment in every location in which we operate. This means, in part, that we never make unlawful employment- related decisions based on a legally- protected status or traits, such as race, gender, color, age, sexual orientation, religion, disability, genetic information, or other characteristics as and where protected by applicable law . We make decisions to hire, promote, terminate or transfer employees based on merit.
Anti-Harassment
LyondellBasell is committed to providing a workplace free of harassment.
To promote respect within our organization, we must all treat one another with dignity. Our Company strongly disapproves of and does not
tolerate any form of harassment or abusive work environment, whether it comes from within or outside of our workplace.
Harassment can be any form of unwelcome or abusive workplace conduct—sexual or non-sexual in nature—that has the effect of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive workplace. A few examples include:
    Physical contact, including touching, hugging or kissing
    Verbal comments, such as racial slurs or sexist jokes or comments
    Non-verbal visual displays, including electronic displays or acts, that contain offensive photographs, videos or hand gestures
    Threats or acts of fear, intimidation, bullying, mobbing, or other legally- prohibited abusive workplace behavior
Workplace Violence
Our Goal Zero commitment means we must insist on a non-violent workplace.
We must never engage in, tolerate or ignore any form of violence. This
includes threats or acts, intimidation or instilling fear of bodily harm in others. If you know of an actual or potential threat or act of violence, you should report your concerns immediately
Question
Nehemiah goes out for lunch several times a week with a group of his coworkers. While dining, the group usually shares jokes and stories to lighten the stress of their workday. However, one of Nehemiah’s colleagues uses a racial slur when retelling a joke she heard on the radio and Nehemiah is deeply offended by it. He asks her not to use such words, but his fellow coworkers tell him to lighten up and “learn to take a joke.” What should he do next?
Answer
Nehemiah did the right thing by speaking up against this behavior. Using racial slurs to tell offensive jokes is a form of discrimination—even during the lunch hour—and our Company doesn’t tolerate this activity. Since his coworkers didn’t seem to understand the severity of their actions, Nehemiah should report the incident consistent with the steps outlined in “Where to Seek Guidance and Report Concerns.”
We Expect to Achieve Goal Zero in Operational Excellence
Working safely is a core value of our Company. It begins with Goal Zero, by which we make the commitment      to never allow the safe, responsible operation of our facilities to be compromised for any reason. It also means we must be dedicated to safety excellence. Nothing should matter to us more than working safely—and
we therefore must strive to create a workplace in which “no one gets hurt, anywhere, at any time.” We have Rules of Performance to help us achieve Goal Zero.
Rules of Performance Rule No. 1
Working safely is a fi  and forever
expectation.
Rule No. 2
Intervene – act to stop anything you believe is unsafe.
Rule No. 3
Take the time to complete tasks correctly with attention to proper housekeeping.
Rule No. 4
Wear proper personal protective equipment and follow approved procedures.
Rule No. 5
Use equipment correctly – never misuse a dedicated system or bypass safety devices.
Rule No. 6
Produce products and services that meet or exceed customer expectations.
Rule No. 7
Make sure you have the proper skills and knowledge to do your job.
Rule No. 8
Report injuries and incidents promptly.
Rule No. 9
When a situation is not understood, move to a safe condition and get help.
Rule No. 10
Take care when making changes; verify safety is not compromised and share your actions with others.
Our Code and Company Safety Policies must be followed by every employee and person working on behalf of the Company at all times. You are expected to report any actual or suspected violations of Company Rules and Policies consistent with the steps outlined in “Where to Seek Guidance and Report Concerns.”
Alcohol and Substance Abuse
At LyondellBasell, we never perform our work under the infl of alcohol, illegal drugs, or improperly used prescription medications. In addition, we must never possess, use, sell, offer or distribute illegal drugs or other controlled substances on Company premises or while conducting Company business. The only exception occurs
if you choose to consume alcohol at business dinners or authorized Company events. However, you must only do so in moderation.
Question
Lilly knows she is supposed to report injuries, job-related illnesses and accidents, but her performance award depends on the incident rate going down. What does LyondellBasell really want?
Answer
LyondellBasell wants every employee to report injuries, job-related illnesses and accidents. It is only through such reporting that the Company can respond to dangerous situations, measure our safety performance and uphold our commitment to health, safety and the protection of the environment. Awards for all employees are tied to overall performance, in which safety is one of several components. To protect all those working in LyondellBasell facilities and those living in the communities in which LyondellBasell operates, accurate and timely reporting is a necessity.
We Protect Our Company’s Assets
We all have a duty to exercise care when using our Company’s physical assets.
This includes Company funds, facilities, equipment, documents and networks. If you know or suspect any abuse, misuse or waste of Company assets, you should report it immediately.
Confi   Information and Intellectual Property
You may have access to LyondellBasell’s confi   non-public information.
Confi   non-public information can take many forms, including fi information, customer lists, business strategies and plans, or operational and asset-related information. As an employee you are expected to use confi     information solely for the benefi of the Company and
not impermissibly disclose it to others outside the Company. Just as we expect all employees to respect the Company’s confi information, we expect employees to respect the confi   information of others, including competitors, suppliers and customers.  If you inadvertently learn of such information, please notify your supervisor or manager.
One type of confi   information is called “Intellectual Property” or “IP”
for short. Our IP is a valuable asset and we must take great care to protect and enforce our IP rights at all times.
IP includes intangible property such as copyrights, patents, trademarks,
design rights, logos and brands. The law protects our rights to this property as it does other forms of physical property. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the rights to all IP created with
Company materials, on Company time, at our Company’s expense or within the scope of our duties belong to LyondellBasell.
Trade secrets—a special class of confi  data that gives our
Company a competitive advantage – are also valuable Company assets we must protect. Some examples of trade secrets include:
    Customer lists or data
    Terms and conditions, rates or fees offered to customers
    Marketing and strategic plans
    Technological developments
Never disclose trade secrets, or any other confi    or proprietary information, without a business need and prior authorization to do so. Take special
care not to disclose this information by properly securing your computer,
documents or other sensitive materials. In addition, avoid discussing such information in places where you can be overheard, including restaurants, restrooms, taxis, airplanes or elevators. Remember, these obligations continue even after your employment with LyondellBasell ends.
Our Reputation
We keep our reputation strong through appropriate and accurate dialogue
with our stakeholders. Our reputation for integrity is infl heavily by the information we provide to the
public. This means, in part, that all such communications must present a fair and accurate picture of our business dealings. Only authorized individuals may speak about LyondellBasell to the media, the investment community and other public forums.
If you receive a request for information from the media, you should forward it to Corporate Communications. If you receive a request from an analyst or member of the investment community, you should forward it to Investor Relations. If you receive a request
from an outside legal representative or government agency, you should forward it to the Legal Department.
Do not take the following actions:
    Speak on behalf of LyondellBasell unless you are a designated spokesperson and have authorization to do so
    Disclose any confi  information
    Refer to LyondellBasell customers, suppliers or partners without their approval
For more information, please see the applicable Company Policies on Elements.
We Use Company Technologies Responsibly
Our computer and network systems are valuable assets of our Company. When using them, do so appropriately and remember that you represent LyondellBasell in all you do. Always use Company computer and network systems in a safe, ethical, lawful,
effi    and productive manner. This means you should never use these systems to access, view, send or communicate illegal, inappropriate, sexually explicit, offensive or unsolicited materials. While limited personal use is allowed, you should never let such use interfere with your job responsibilities.
You should treat email, texts, blogs and instant messages with the same care you would in writing a letter on LyondellBasell’s letterhead.
We should remember that:
    Subject to applicable laws, all computer systems and the data created, transferred and stored  is Company property. For security and system maintenance purposes, individuals authorized by LyondellBasell may monitor
equipment, systems and network traffi at any time. Monitoring will only be carried out to the extent permitted or required by law and as necessary and justifi  for business purposes.
    Employees must not share accounts and must keep their passwords secure and are responsible for the work performed with their account; this includes but is not limited to email and use of Company information.
    Employees must not circumvent desktop or security controls. This activity can result in the introduction of malicious programs (e.g., viruses) into Company computer systems. Violating copyright or similar laws or regulations, including, but not limited
to, the installation or distribution of “pirated” or other software products that are not appropriately licensed for use by LyondellBasell is also strictly prohibited.
    Information not released for public consumption or Company confi information cannot be transferred to or stored on fl   drives, external optical drives or third party hosted systems such as personal email or internet hosted services.
We Respect Each Other’s Personal Information
Our Company respects the
confi       required by law of employee personal information. This typically includes information such as  our home addresses, government-issued identifi   numbers and payroll information. If your work involves handling such information, you must take great care to protect it. Never share it with anyone unless there is a business need to do so, consistent with applicable law. You must also take care to protect information pertaining to all prospective, current or former employees from unauthorized access or disclosure.
 Social Media and Networking
At LyondellBasell, we recognize the vast opportunities provided to personally participate in various social media outlets. “Social media” includes a variety of social networking sites, blogs and wikis. However, when making use of such personal opportunities, we strongly encourage you to do so with caution. You may never use social media to defame, harass, bully, mob, threaten or intimidate Company employees, customers, competitors or vendors. In addition, never share any confi
or proprietary Company information through your participation in social media. With regard to the National Labor Relations Act in the United States, “confi information” for purposes of this section of our Code does not include personal wage, disciplinary,
or other information about terms and conditions of your employment. The use of social media outlets should never interfere with work.
Question
Emilie works in LyondellBasell’s Technology business. She is proud of the work she does and often shares her knowledge and ideas on industry blogs. During an especially lengthy discussion, Emilie discloses information about a new process technology our Company is developing. In doing so, she feels she is helping to enrich the industry and generate interest in LyondellBasell’s process technology. Did she do anything wrong?
Answer
Yes. Emilie failed to treat Company information responsibly and disclosed confidential information. Never disclose any confidential or proprietary Company information in a public forum which includes blogs and other social networking sites. Emilie must exercise caution to ensure her use of social media does not interfere with her ability to uphold our Code, Company Policies and the law.
We Avoid Conflicts of Interest
LyondellBasell is committed to maintaining our stakeholders’ trust through ethical and reliable performance. This begins with our commitment to integrity. We should be alert to anything that could create a conflict of interest or even an appearance of a conflict of interest. A “conflict of interest” arises when our personal interests are not aligned with those of our Company. We should always be free from any interests, influence, or relationship that might conflict with the best interests of LyondellBasell. We should also avoid conduct which may appear to raise a conflict of interest.
Financial Interests
Some of us may have fi
investments and interests in companies other than LyondellBasell. If we have  a signifi fi  interest in a
business or entity that transacts or seeks to transact any business or compete with LyondellBasell, then the details
of the signifi  fi  interest should be disclosed to the Compliance Department. A Signifi        Financial Interest is defi      as a direct or indirect aggregate interest of more than ten percent (10%) (i) of any class of the outstanding securities of a fi    or a corporation; (ii) interest in a partnership or association; or (iii) of the total assets or gross income of such Employee.
Outside Employment
Part of what makes LyondellBasell so successful is our commitment to the work we perform. In order to uphold this commitment, we are strongly discouraged from accepting outside employment or outside business opportunities in entities doing business with or competing with LyondellBasell. Such opportunities are considered confl of interest and must be disclosed. In addition, exercise caution if you are asked to serve as a director, trustee or offi   for another company or organization. Before doing so, you
must seek approval from the Chief Legal Offi    Please note that you may never serve in these positions for a competitor of LyondellBasell.
Doing Business with Family and Friends
A confl of interest may exist if a family member works for a customer, competitor, or vendor of our Company and you are
in a position to affect Company business with that customer, competitor or vendor. Doing business on behalf of the Company with family members in such circumstances will likely lead to a confl    of interest situation. Family member means an Employee’s immediate family members such as his or her spouse, children, mother, father, sisters, brothers, and steps or in- laws of these types as well as domestic partners. In addition, at no time may you directly supervise a family member. If you think you may already have a reporting relationship with a member of your family you should disclose it.
Question
Julio invites a potential customer to attend a business dinner. Winning a contract with this customer would be very beneficial for our Company and Julio wants to make the best impression he can. The two discuss business over a casual meal, and Julio thinks the prospective customer will award LyondellBasell his company’s business. After paying for the meal, Julio invites the customer to a casino and offers to pay for the customer to play a few games of blackjack. Julio is certain that this is inappropriate, but thinks that winning at the casino will win the contract. What should he do?
Answer
While hosting occasional, reasonably priced business meals is appropriate, funding a customer’s gambling is not appropriate.
Business Gifts and Entertainment
When conducting LyondellBasell business, you may exchange business gifts and participate in entertainment to foster good relations between
our Company and its customers or vendors. However, we must use good judgment when offering or accepting such courtesies. Otherwise, we may
fi  ourselves in a confl    of interest situation. This means we may never offer or accept a business gift or entertainment if doing so would create a bias in our decisions. Before accepting or offering a business courtesy, ask yourself if you would feel comfortable  if others knew of it. As a rule, you may only offer or accept a business gift or
entertainment if it is unsolicited and complies with applicable Company Policies.
In addition, we may not offer or accept improper gifts and entertainment directly or indirectly through third parties or allow our family members to do so.
When interacting with government
offi    and employees, we must follow stricter rules. Refer to the “Bribes and Improper Payments” section of our Code and applicable Company Policies on Elements for additional information.
Disclosing Confl    of Interest
If you are aware of actions or interests of your own or others that might create a conflict, you should make a
disclosure by completing a disclosure form. In addition, we should work actively with our customers, vendors and anyone doing business on behalf of LyondellBasell to identify and address conflicts of interest. For more information or guidance, please see the applicable Company Policies on Elements.
Question
Greta works with several LyondellBasell vendors, many of whom send cards or promotional gifts to her office during the holiday season. This year, one vendor sends her an expensive bracelet to thank her for our Company’s continued business, including a note that states, “To many more years of service.” What should Greta do?
Answer
While holiday cards and gifts of less than US$100 are appropriate business gifts, lavish jewelry is not. In addition, the vendor included a note that implies the gift is meant to secure future business. Greta should politely decline and return the gift and report the incident to the Compliance Department.
We Comply with Anti- Corruption Laws
As a global organization, LyondellBasell is committed to acting ethically and legally across the globe. We uphold this commitment regardless of where we do business. This means, in part, that we abide by all international anti-corruption laws, treaties and regulations that  forbid bribery, improper payments or kickbacks.
Bribes and Improper Payments
Doing business the right way means we never offer or accept any form of bribe, payment or kickback. A “bribe” is an offer or promise to give anything of value in order to improperly infl  a decision or to gain an improper business advantage. A “kickback” occurs when money is returned or is paid as a reward for awarding or fostering business.
In addition, LyondellBasell prohibits facilitating payments. A “facilitating payment” is a small payment—usually in cash—made to expedite routine government services. Although such payments may be common in certain parts of the world, our Company prohibits them.
You must take caution to avoid improper payments. You should always determine the ownership structure
of our third party representatives by performing due diligence as required by applicable Company Policies You must also ensure that you do not allow third parties to make or receive any improper payment on our behalf.
You may never seek or accept any improper payment or kickbacks.
Violations of this policy may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination, as well as possible civil and criminal penalties for those parties and our Company. If you have any questions or concerns about this, please refer to the section “Where to Seek Guidance and Report Concerns.”
You are expected to report your concerns about bribes and improper payments.  LyondellBasell will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who makes a good faith report of misconduct.
We Work to Prevent Money Laundering
LyondellBasell is committed to detecting and preventing money laundering. “Money laundering” means engaging in fi   transactions that conceal the identity, source or destination of money gained through illegal means. As part  of our commitment to identifying and stopping money laundering activity, we must comply with all applicable anti- money laundering laws throughout
the world. In addition, we must ensure that we only do business and engage in fi    transactions with persons conducting legitimate and lawful activities. We should always confi
the identities of persons or fi with whom we conduct business and be comfortable that any funds we receive are derived solely from lawful and legitimate sources.
Money laundering issues can be complex. If you have any questions or concerns about this, please see the applicable Company Policies on Elements. You should report any suspicious activity to our Chief Compliance Offi
We Comply with Antitrust and Competition Laws
Delivering excellence to our customers means we do our part to ensure
they have access to quality products and services at fair prices. Therefore, LyondellBasell is committed to competing vigorously, yet ethically and lawfully. To make sure all companies play by the same rules, various competition laws have been enacted in the countries in which we do business. These laws generally prohibit price
fixing, dividing territories, agreeing to contract terms with our competitors, and other actions that negatively affect our customers or restrict competition.
We must always follow the letter and spirit of these competition laws wherever we conduct our business. These laws may apply even when you are doing business outside
of a country’s borders. It is your responsibility to know and follow all competition laws that apply to your work.
The following examples illustrate prohibited practices:
    Entering into price fixing agreements
    Allocating market share—either formally or informally—among competitors
    Bid rigging
    Restricting or limiting production in order to reduce competition
By knowing and following competition laws, we ensure that our customers have access to the best products
at reasonable costs. If you need guidance, please refer to the section “Where to Seek Guidance and Report Concerns” and see the applicable Company Policies on Elements.
Question
LyondellBasell is in the process of bidding for a large supply contract with a potential customer, and Julianne is the sales representative responsible for the bid. After several months of working together, Julianne develops a friendly relationship with the potential customer. To thank her for her hard work and friendship throughout the process, Julianne offers her contact an expensive gift basket filled with fine wines and chocolates. Did she do anything wrong?
Answer
Anti-bribery laws are quite strict, and Julianne must be careful about making any offer to our potential customers or existing customers. In this case, the gift basket could be construed as an attempt to improperly infl the decision to award the contract. Julianne should follow the applicable Company Policy when giving gifts to potential customers or existing customers.
Every Day Excellence for Our Shareholders
We Work to Prevent Insider Trading and Tipping
We must refuse to engage in illegal and unethical securities trading. While working at LyondellBasell, we may come across confidential information about our Company, subsidiaries or affiliates, joint ventures, clients or vendors.
Throughout the world, countries have enacted laws that prohibit us from trading securities based on material, nonpublic information. “Material, non-public information” refers to
information that is not available to the public and that a reasonable investor would likely consider important in deciding whether to purchase or sell
a security. If you trade on the basis of such information, it is considered
insider trading and is illegal. Therefore, you may not buy or sell our or another company’s securities if you possess such information. Additionally if you share information with another person and that other person trades on the basis
of the information, that is considered “tipping” and both of you may be guilty of insider trading.
Inside information may include:
    Financial information, including earnings, forecasts or dividend changes
    Winning or losing a client or contract
    Changes in our most senior management
    Litigation or government investigations
    Mergers, acquisitions or divestitures
    Sale or purchase of major assets or subsidiaries
If you feel you or another employee may have engaged in insider trading or tipping, you should contact the Legal Department  immediately.
We Maintain Accurate Financial Books and Records
Our shareholders depend on our honesty and integrity, particularly when measuring the fi    strength of
our Company. It is crucial then that we maintain accurate and honest
accounting practices and recordkeeping at all times. We must all comply with recognized accounting principles. Those who have fi    and accounting responsibilities must also ensure that our accounting methods are accurate, presenting an honest, transparent and forthright picture of our Company.
We must comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and follow our internal accounting policies and controls at all times. Incomplete or inaccurate
fi   disclosures not only damage our Company and its reputation, but they also harm our stakeholders who rely on their accuracy.
We must:
    Keep and present all Company records and reports in accordance with the law. These records include accounting records, as well as any other electronic or written records, such as expense reports and time sheets
    Establish and maintain a system of strong and effective internal controls
    Ensure that all Company records accurately and fairly refl  the underlying transaction
    Never falsify any document
    Record all fi   transactions in the proper account, department and accounting period
    Ensure that all actions and commitments are in accordance with Company Policy
Responding to Audits, Investigations and Inquiries
We must respond to and comply with all external and internal audits and investigations, including government investigations. You may never impede or delay any such audit or investigation. You must cooperate fully and provide auditors and investigators with the information they request. If you
have any questions about any audit, investigation or inquiry, and how you should respond, consult with the Legal Department or Compliance Department.
Records  Management
We must retain our business records as long as the law requires and as long as necessary for our business purposes.
This means we should:
    Classify documents according to Company Policy
    Retain and discard Company records consistent with Company Policy and schedules
    Follow all special record-keeping requirements issued with respect to internal investigations, litigation and government inquiries
However, if you receive notice that some or all of your records are required for an internal or government investigation or legal proceeding, you shall not discard or destroy them. If you receive a subpoena or request for any document or record, please notify the Legal Department immediately. Similarly, if you receive a request from a business counterparty,
a government agency or a third party to provide a record or document, you should contact the Legal Department.
Question
Bjorn is responsible for preparing his business segment’s financial records for the quarter and realizes they are just short of their financial target. Bjorn is concerned that these numbers, though strong, will raise questions and criticism. He decides to round up the numbers to ensure his segment receives proper recognition for its hard work and avoids any scrutiny for barely missing the mark. What should Bjorn do differently in this situation?
Answer
Bjorn should never knowingly prepare an inaccurate financial report. He needs to report the numbers honestly and focus his segment’s efforts on next quarter’s results. While none of us likes to fall short of our goals, we must be honest when we do. In addition to losing our stakeholders’ trust, Bjorn and our Company could face criminal and civil liability for making inaccurate reports.
Every Day Excellence for Our Customers and Vendors
We Strive to Meet Product Quality and Safety Standards
Our products play a vital role in improving the quality of people’s lives. Our customers depend on us to provide products that meet or exceed all applicable quality and safety standards. Therefore, we must ensure that we comply with quality controls and all related laws and regulations. In addition, we must hold our vendors accountable for the quality and safety of the products and services they provide to us. If you know or suspect that a vendor is not upholding our standards, you should report the situation by following the steps outlined in the “Where to Seek Guidance and Report Concerns” section.
We Deal Fairly with Our Customers and Vendors
Doing business the right way means we always provide accurate and fair information about our Company – and our competition – to all of our customers, vendors and stakeholders.
This means that we must always engage in fair and ethical marketing, sales
and communications. We may never misrepresent our products or those of our competitors. In addition, we may never take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation or abuse of privileged or proprietary information, misrepresentations or any other unethical or illegal practice.
Use of Competitive Information
Sometimes we have access to information about our competitors that may give our Company a business advantage. This information may come from others or employees
who worked previously for or have information about a competitor. It is important that we act legally and
ethically at all times with respect to this information. Even if it may be legal to use competitive information, it may not be ethical. If confi    information about a competitor is deliberately or
inadvertently disclosed to you, you should discuss its disclosure with the Legal Department and refuse to use it without express permission from the Legal Department to do so.
We Safeguard Third Party Information
Through our work, we may be privy to confi  information about our vendors and other stakeholders. We must safeguard this information and
honor all contractual commitments we enter into with these parties relating  to said information at all times. This
means, in part, protecting all third-party intellectual property, such as inventions and software, from disclosure or misuse.
Question
Patrick is training a new employee, Marisol, who previously worked for a competing chemical company. While discussing product markets, Marisol discloses financial information about her previous employer, which could affect future business decisions our Company makes. Marisol doesn’t see anything wrong with sharing this information and Patrick thinks it is too useful to ignore. What should be done in this situation?
Answer
First, Patrick should explain to Marisol that her disclosure violates our Code. Helping her understand this will prevent future disclosures from occurring. Next, Patrick should discuss the incident with the Legal Department to determine the best course of action. Of course, Patrick must not attempt to use this information for LyondellBasell’s gain, as doing so is a violation of our Code.
We Comply with International Trade Controls
LyondellBasell is a global company.
As such, it is our responsibility to know and follow all applicable laws and regulations that govern international trade. Consequences for violating trade control laws and regulations are severe for both our Company and the individuals involved.
Import/Export Controls
One of the responsibilities we all share is knowing and following laws relating to imports and exports. An import occurs when a product, software, service, technology, or technical information is shipped into a customs territory, and an export occurs when the same is shipped out of a customs territory. Imports are subject to various laws and regulations that may require the payment of duties and taxes and the submission of certain fi   Various laws and regulations may require licenses and permits
before exporting any products, services,
technology, or technical information. For additional information, please see the applicable Company Policies and procedures on Elements
Sanctioned Countries and Boycotts
Some laws prohibit us from doing business with certain people or entities or conducting business in certain countries. We are mindful of economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations, European Union, United States and other jurisdictions that may restrict or prohibit trade transactions. Activities that may be restricted or prohibited include investments, transfers of assets, monetary payments, imports, exports, sales or supplies of goods, services, software or technology, trade related transactions, travel to the affected countries and any facilitation of others who are conducting these activities. We must be aware of and follow applicable restrictions wherever we are doing business, to the extent not otherwise in confl    with applicable laws of primary jurisdiction.
 We must also comply with anti-boycott laws and regulations where applicable.
If you receive a boycott request – either orally or in writing – report it to the Compliance and/or Tax Department.
For additional information, please see the applicable Company Policies on Elements.
Every Day Excellence for Our Communities
We Operate as a Good Corporate Citizen
Our commitment to excellence means we take great care to uphold human rights in all of our operations and facilities, regardless of local custom. Our Company does not use child or forced, indentured or involuntary labor. In addition, we uphold all fair wage and hours laws, wherever we work. We must always promote the health and safety of our workers in every location in which we conduct business.
LyondellBasell is committed to doing business with others who share our commitment to human rights. You should report any violations of this policy or any human rights, labor, wage or hours laws by referring to the section “Where to Seek Guidance and Report Concerns.
We Work to Protect Our Environment
At LyondellBasell, we are proud of our long history of managing our performance to minimize its impact on the environment. We achieve Goal Zero performance by operating our
sites safely and reliably. We believe that compliance is a minimum standard. As a result, we meet and strive to exceed environmental standards in all of our operations. We develop products that enable our customers to use energy and water more effi    In addition, we work with our stakeholders to ensure that our products are consistent with environmental regulations and laws.
We Make Charitable and Political Contributions Ethically
Our Company has a strong sense of social responsibility and takes pride in our many volunteers. Our people give generously of their time and
effort to make a difference in our local communities. In addition to Company- sponsored opportunities, such as Global Care Day, we are each encouraged to
 pursue other charitable activities of our choice. However, in pursuing charitable activities that are not sponsored by the Company we may only do so on our own time and using our own resources.
This applies to your individual political involvement not sponsored by the Company as well. While we are encouraged to engage in such activity, we may never do so on Company premises, during Company time or with Company resources. We must also refrain from posting personal political messages on blogs or other public forums using Company networks or computers, even during non-work hours. Each country
where LyondellBasell operates has restrictions on political contributions by companies. Employees must consult the Government Affairs Department to
ensure strict compliance with applicable laws.
For additional information or guidance, please see the applicable Company Policies on Elements.
Question
Elena is an environmental engineer in one of our manufacturing facilities and is responsible for helping maintain and improve the reliability of plant machinery. It is brought to her attention that some of
the equipment in the facility is not functioning properly and is emitting more pollution than it should. She approaches her supervisor for assistance. Her supervisor tells her that there are bigger issues to be concerned with and that the machinery doesn’t pose an immediate risk. What should Elena do next?
Answer
Machinery that is not functioning properly could pose a bigger environmental concern than Elena’s supervisor realizes. Elena should alert her site manager or HSE manager of the issue immediately
to investigate further. If left unattended, the equipment not functioning properly could pose an environmental risk.
Marathon Oil Corporation
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

WE WILL MAKE ACCOUNTABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR ETHICAL CONDUCT A STRATEGIC BUSINESS COMMITMENT.
LIVING OUR COMMITMENT
The purpose of our Code of Business Conduct is to set forth our commitment to high ethical standards and to reinforce prompt and consistent actions in the maintenance of those standards. We must apply these standards in both letter and spirit. Where the letter of the Code is not specific, the spirit must prevail.

QUESTIONS? CONCERNS?
Talk to your management or utilize the Integrity Helpline at 877-713-8314
or  www.integrity-helpline.com/ MarathonOil.jsp

When in doubt about what to do, ask yourself this question:
Would I be proud to explain my actions to my family or fellow employees – or to millions of people around the world on tonight’s news broadcast?
This is not a hypothetical question. The world is getting smaller and communications are almost instantaneous. What we do today is known immediately around the world. So always act in such a way that you would be proud of your actions. If the best course
of action isn’t clear, please talk to your supervisor or manager, utilize the Integrity Helpline (877-713-8314 or web submission - www.integrity-helpline.com/MarathonOil.jsp), or contact the resources listed in the Getting Help section of this Code. When in doubt,
do the right thing by making inquiry through these resources.
 
MANAGEMENT COMMITMENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The Company is committed to living up to high standards of ethical behavior. To oversee the Company’s ethics and compliance
efforts, the Company has designated a Chief Compliance Counsel and has established  the Corporate Compliance Committee, comprising senior officers and managers, to enhance the Company’s business integrity efforts through quarterly compliance program reviews. The Company has also created the Business Integrity Office, which is responsible for implementing the Code
of Business Conduct through training, communication, and administration of the Integrity Helpline.
Managers and supervisors have a responsibility to create and sustain in both actions and words, a work environment
in which employees, consultants, and contract workers know that ethical and  legal behavior is required of them. Managers and supervisors must be diligent in looking for indications that unethical or illegal conduct has occurred, seek guidance from the Company provided resources, and take
appropriate and consistent action to address any situations that are in conflict with the law or the Code of Business Conduct.
WE WILL MAKE ACCOUNTABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR ETHICAL CONDUCT
A STRATEGIC BUSINESS COMMITMENT.
How are my obligations to meeting
financial or business goals and my obligations to the Code of Business Conduct viewed by the Company?

The two are completely compatible…and in
fact directly connected. Doing the right things for the right reasons is always good business. The Company’s interests are never served
by unlawful or unethical business  practices.
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
We believe that effective corporate governance begins with a strong Board of Directors, able to make independent
decisions on behalf of all shareholders. We will take all appropriate steps to support such a Board. We have an independent outside auditor, as well as a system of internal controls and reporting mechanisms, to protect the assets and operations of the Company and to provide management and the Board with accurate, honest, and timely information. Employees are required to live up to the letter and spirit of our system of internal controls, and to cooperate fully with any audit or investigation.
 
ACCOUNTABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY
We make many decisions every day at all levels of the organization. This is how we move forward and accomplish our business goals. We as individuals are accountable for making good decisions and for the outcomes those decisions produce. Our Code of Business Conduct provides guidance for our decisions.
Our fellow employees look to us for leadership and to see if we take
responsibility for our own actions. Each of us must act as a leader by taking responsibility for everything we do.

“Where the letter of
the Code is not specific, the spirit must prevail.”
 
Each of us must abide by our Code of Business Conduct. Violators of the Code are subject to appropriate discipline, up to and including dismissal from the Company and prosecution under
the law. Any waiver of the provisions of this Code requires the personal review and approval of the President of the Company. Any waiver of the provisions of this Code for the benefit of senior financial officers, executive officers or members of the Board of the Company requires the personal review and approval of the Audit and Finance Committee or Board of Directors and must be promptly disclosed to shareholders. Waivers may be granted only as permitted by law and in extraordinary circumstances.

A RESPONSIBILITY TO OURSELVES
We believe honesty and integrity benefit the individual, as well as the Company.
Each of us wants to be known as a person of integrity. When we lose that reputation–with others or ourselves–it’s painful. It can hurt our careers, our health, and our relationships. If we engage in unethical conduct, we may have personal, legal liability or responsibility for any resulting damages or violations of law.
Probably the worst thing to do is to cover up a problem. Attempts to conceal even a minor violation by altering or destroying Company records can result in civil and criminal penalties that are worse than the penalty for the original offense.
The goal of our Company is to reinforce a positive work environment where doing the right thing, thereby protecting yourself from the negative consequences of illegal behavior, is the easy thing to do.

REPORTING NON-COMPLIANCE
If you have any knowledge of a possible violation of our Code of Business Conduct, you have an obligation to report it to a resource, as listed in the Getting Help section of this Code. The Company will not allow retaliation for reporting concerns in good faith. Retaliation for good faith reporting is itself a violation of the Code. Again, refer to the Getting Help section of this Code for more information on how you can report non-compliance concerns.

Sometimes it seems to me that safety takes a
back seat to productivity. What should I do?

We are committed to putting safety
and health first. Discuss  your perceptions with your manager or your manager’s manager or call the Integrity Helpline or contact any of the resources listed in the Getting Help section. We all share the responsibility for safety, and the responsibility to speak up without any fear of retaliation even when it’s not popular.
 
WE WILL TREAT ALL EMPLOYEES WITH DIGNITY, RESPECT AND FAIRNESS.
 
WE WILL LOOK BEYOND OUR BORDERS AND TAKE RESPONSIBILITY
FOR OUR ACTIONS.
 
Sometimes I feel like my supervisor
is making fun of me and it makes me feel bad. It isn’t sexual or violent but it is very uncomfortable. What can I do?

Our values and treatment of
employees go beyond legal issues and are based on respect and dignity of
every employee. Discuss the matter with the appropriate manager, call the Integrity Helpline, or contact the resources listed in the Getting Help section for advice or guidance.
 
DIGNITY, RESPECT AND FAIRNESS
You and your ideas create value and  success for the Company. We must value and respect the unique character and contribution of each employee. Treating each other with dignity, respect, and fairness is the foundation of good business conduct. The Company respects the human, cultural, and legal rights of individuals
and communities and promotes, within  its business relationships, the goals and principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

DIVERSITY
We promote diversity within our work force. Diversity of people and ideas will provide the Company with a business advantage.
We believe diverse companies compete more successfully in today’s world economy.

DISCRIMINATION
Discriminating against any employee or person with whom we do business on the basis of age, race, color, religion, sex, disability, national origin, ethnic group,
sexual orientation, covered veteran or other legally protected status is not permitted.
 
WORKPLACE HARASSMENT AND VIOLENCE
Harassment and violence in the workplace are strictly prohibited and will not be tolerated. Conduct that creates an unwelcome or uncomfortable situation
or hostile work environment, such as unwelcome advances or requests for sexual favors, inappropriate comments, jokes, intimidation, bullying, or physical contact, may be forms of workplace harassment.
Employees should avoid any actions or words that might be interpreted by another as harassment or a threat of
violence.

SAFETY AND HEALTH
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace. Each of us is responsible for observing all of the safety
and health rules that apply to our jobs. We are all responsible for taking precautions to protect ourselves and our fellow employees from an accident, injury or unsafe condition. Additionally, each of us must promptly report unsafe or unhealthy conditions and take steps to correct those conditions immediately.

ALCOHOL/SUBSTANCE ABUSE
We are committed to a workplace free of substance abuse. We jeopardize ourselves and each other if we report to work impaired by the influence of alcohol or drugs. The use, possession or distribution of unauthorized drugs or alcohol on Company time or on Company premises is prohibited. Employees are encouraged to seek treatment for alcohol and substance abuse problems.
 
CUSTOMERS
Each of us has important responsibilities to our customers. While some of us are closer to customers than others, we all should think in terms of how our customers might feel about how we conduct business and we should act accordingly.
Customers depend on us to be true to our word. Nothing undermines our reputation faster than misrepresenting ourselves. Simply put, those who do business with us deserve honest, accurate, and clear communication. They also deserve and need to know that we keep our promises. Equally, customers and suppliers need to be aware of our standards regarding ethics and business integrity and we should encourage them to help us uphold such standards.

ENVIRONMENT
Environmental protection is the right thing to do, and part of  our business strategy. We will work to reduce and prevent waste,
emissions and releases in all of our operations. We will safely use, handle, transport, and dispose of all raw materials, products, and wastes. And we’ll help others understand their environmental responsibilities when using our products. We strive for continuous improvement of our environmental performance, in partnership with government agencies, contractors, and communities. Our environmental commitment is a responsibility shared by everyone. No one can assume it is the job of someone else.

COMMUNITIES
We are privileged to do business in many communities around the world. As citizens of those communities, we must always act
responsibly. This means conducting our operations safely, and being prepared for emergencies that may occur. We give back to our communities by actively supporting and participating in hundreds of civic and charitable causes.

EXTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS
Communications to those outside our Company require a unique understanding of legal and media issues. To ensure professional handling, refer requests for information by the media or the public to Corporate Relations and legal requests to the Law Organization.
We had a small spill recently that
we took care of quickly. . . but I’m pretty sure nobody notified management. No one wants the paperwork, the aggravation or the possible expense of a government fine. What’s our stance on this?

We will obey the law.
We are responsible for being good environmental citizens–and this means
not only prompt, effective clean-up but also accurate and honest reporting of any problems. Any event that threatens the environment or our reputation must
be reported to your management.
 
WE WILL RESPECT AND PROTECT THE INTERESTS OF THOSE WHO INVEST
IN OUR FUTURE.

Sometimes  the message boards
on the Internet are full of misinformation about the Company. Isn’t it my
responsibility to correct it with my own post?

No. You should let someone in Corporate
Relations know about erroneous information circulating in public. No unauthorized employee may post Company information or a Company position on the Internet.
 
PROTECTING COMPANY ASSETS
We are each entrusted with Company assets and honoring that trust is a basic responsibility to each other and to our Company. We must protect Company assets from loss, damage, misuse or theft. This includes our time when compensated by the Company. Use of our Company assets for purposes other than Company business requires prior authorization by the vice president for the organization.

PROTECTING OUR GOOD NAME
It takes each of us–one person at a time and one action at a time–to protect our name and our reputation. Part of protecting our name and reputation is living up to the standards found in this Code of Business Conduct. We must be careful to only use our name and logo for authorized Company business and never in connection with personal activities or personal communication.

BUSINESS RECORDS AND COMMUNICATIONS
When we create or maintain reports, records and communications, we are also responsible for the integrity of those records. We must not make false or misleading entries in Company books or records. All financial reports, sales reports, expense reports, time sheets, production records and other similar documents must be accurate. If you are uncertain of the validity of an entry or report, raise your concern to the best source for correcting it. Never allow yourself to be part of a chain of incorrect information.
Whenever you write a memo, leave a voice mail or send an e-mail, you create a record. These records are not private. Communicate in a way that you would be comfortable if you read what you said or wrote later in a newspaper or court of law.
We will dispose of documents in accordance with our records retention policy. We will never destroy or alter any documents or records in response to any investigation, suspected investigation or lawful request.

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
Protecting confidential information, one of our most valuable assets, is part of our obligation to our Company. Confidential information includes proprietary technical information, business plans, status of operations and equipment, detailed financial data, and all other non-public business information that would be of use to competitors or harmful to the Company if made public. We must not disclose confidential information to anyone outside the Company in a manner that could benefit our competitors or harm the Company.
In many instances, we require written confidentiality agreements with the party to whom we will be disclosing such information. If you have questions
 

about the confidentiality of information or the need for a confidentiality agreement, seek advice from the Law Organization.
Avoid unnecessary discussion of confidential information in public places and with individuals who have no need to have
the information. We must protect our information by appropriate use of reasonable security measures.
Protecting the confidential information of our employees and customers is also of the greatest importance. Personal
employee information should be limited to Company personnel who have appropriate authorization and a need to know such information. Anyone who handles such information must take great care to preserve such confidentiality. Our responsibility to preserve confidential information continues even after our employment with the Company ends. Additionally, we should never try to persuade others to violate obligations of confidentiality they might have to present or former employers.

INSIDE INFORMATION
Stocks and other securities are publicly traded and their market prices are based on public knowledge of our Company. Investors could gain an unfair advantage through material inside, non-public information that might affect their decisions to buy or sell securities. Trading on, or “tipping” others about material non-public information  about the Company or the companies we  do business with could result in serious civil and criminal penalties for individuals and  the Company. Always seek advice from the
Law Organization if you are unsure about the legality of a transaction.
 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Business decisions and actions on behalf of our Company must never be influenced by personal considerations or personal relationships. We must never use Company property, information or our position to create personal or family benefit.
A conflict of interest may exist when family members or close personal friends are involved in business relationships with us, either inside or outside the Company, or when we or a family member have a direct or indirect personal or financial interest in any business issue that is under consideration.
A conflict may also exist when an outside interest interferes with our ability to do our jobs to the satisfaction of the Company. We should never attempt to become involved  in a business that may compete with the Company nor attempt to acquire an interest in property or other assets in which our Company might reasonably be expected to have an interest, without first offering the opportunity to the Company.
 
It seems that newspaper stories
often contain more information about a plant upset or unit failure than we are provided in the Company. It’s almost as if someone at the Company shared the information.If so, isn’t that inappropriate?

Our ethics policy cautions employees to
be sensitive to the danger of releasing proprietary
information – and potentially damaging information –
to the press. Because of the potential for damage or misrepresentation, the Company’s Corporate Relations component is explicitly charged with handling media contacts.
Not only does this policy help protect our reputation, it also helps the Company’s competitive  position.
Experience shows most “press leaks” are rarely intentional.  Employees need to understand that casual and careless talk can lead to releasing sensitive
information that can damage the Company and its reputation.
WE WILL RESPECT AND PROTECT THE INTERESTS OF THOSE WHO INVEST
IN OUR FUTURE.
 
WE SEE OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS AS EQUALS IN THE QUEST FOR HIGH
BUSINESS CONDUCT STANDARDS.

I often know about the financial results of the
Company before most other people inside the Company. If we beat forecasts, this seems like the perfect time to buy our stock. Right?

Wrong. If your information has not
yet been shared with the public, and it is important enough that investors might change their perceptions of the Company, then you can’t buy or sell. In a sensitive position such as yours, it’s wise to check with the Law Organization to determine a safe window for investment actions.
Suppose I am offered a gift that I feel I should
not take, but it would be embarrassing to refuse…what should I do?
This is why the gift standards call for good
judgment and disclosure
–   each situation can be so different. You should always feel free to decline a gift and return it with a thank you note. If it is an inappropriate gift, inform your supervisor and discuss the next steps.
 
RELATIONSHIPS
Employees cannot have a direct or indirect reporting relationship to a near relative without the written consent of the vice president of Human Resources.
Romantic relationships between a supervisor and a direct or indirect subordinate is considered a conflict of interest and thus prohibited. The Company has adopted a Relationships Standard further defining the parameters of romantic  relationships.
You must promptly disclose all potential conflicts of interest, including those where even the appearance of a conflict of interest may exist, to your supervisor and the Business Integrity Office. The Company also periodically requires employees to certify, with any disclosures noted, that they are not involved in any
potential conflict situations. Disclosure and discussion are the best ways to protect against and deal with conflicts of interest.

MEALS, GIFTS, AND ENTERTAINMENT
The exchange of meals, gifts, and entertainment is a common practice in business, and can help us build better relationships  with  customers,  vendors, and other business allies.  Although world customs may vary, one principle is clear and common: an employee should not accept any meal, gift, favor,
or entertainment if doing so will obligate, appear to obligate, or is intended to obligate or unduly influence the employee. Think about what other employees might think about your actions, and what kind of example you would be setting.
 
The types of meals, gifts and entertainment that are appropriate to give or receive as
a Company employee depend on many factors. If the meal, gift or entertainment  in question is lavish or frequent, or unusual for the receiver’s job or community, it is probably not acceptable. If you’re in the middle of negotiations or bid evaluations, extra care is merited. Never request or solicit personal gifts, favors, entertainment or services. Never offer or accept gifts of cash or securities. This section of the Code is not intended to conflict with Company compensation programs or Company authorized distributions to employees or third parties.
Further information can be found in the Company’s Standards for Meals, Gifts and Entertainment. An electronic Gift and Entertainment Approval Form has been implemented for use when supervisory approval is required.

TRAVEL
Business travel requires each of us to know and follow current travel and
business expense reporting policies of the Company. Free transportation from vendors, suppliers, customers or those who wish to be vendors, suppliers or customers generally requires prior approval by an employee’s supervisor.

Because of the many factors involved, every scenario can- not be itemized in this Code of Business Conduct. When  in doubt, seek the guidance of your supervisor, call the Integrity Helpline, or contact any of the resources listed in the Getting Help section.
 
EXTERNAL BUSINESS PRACTICES
We will deal honestly with our suppliers and contractors.
We believe in doing business with those who embrace and demonstrate high standards of business conduct. We will not look favorably on suppliers that have a history of violating the law, including environmental, employment, and safety laws.
External business partners that knowingly seek to have Company employees violate our Code of Business Conduct will be subject to appropriate sanctions, including the possible cancellation of all current and future contracts.

INTERNAL BUSINESS PARTNERS
Each of us acts as a business partner to every other person at our Company. We will honor that relationship through truthful and candid communication. We will communicate both good news and bad news in timely and candid ways. This includes communication up and down the organization.
We will respect the ideas of others and respect their courage to express those ideas. We will win as a team, but always understand the importance of each team member. We will only make realistic promises to each other and we will keep those  promises.

“The goal of our Company is to reinforce a positive work environment where doing the right thing is the easy thing to do.”
 
WE SEE OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS AS EQUALS IN THE QUEST FOR HIGH
BUSINESS CONDUCT STANDARDS.
 
WE WILL COMPLY WITH LEGAL AND REGULATORY STANDARDS.
 
MARKETING PRACTICES
We will compete for business aggressively and honestly. We will not misrepresent our products, services or prices. We will not make false or misleading claims about our products or services, nor will we do so about the products and services of our competitors.

PURCHASING PRACTICES
Employees must base all purchasing decisions on the value realized by our Company and alignment with our business standards and goals. Important considerations in
purchasing decisions include competitive bidding, partnering arrangements, incentive-based contracts, quality verification, confirming the legal and financial condition of the potential supplier, and avoiding personal conflicts of interest such as dealing with family members or friends. We must properly document any purchasing arrangement or agreement.
 “The Company is committed to living up to high standards of ethical behavior.”
 
THE LETTER AND SPIRIT
Legal standards of conduct act as our minimum acceptable level of conduct. Obviously we must obey the law, but we strive for a higher standard. The spirit of our Code of Business Conduct reaches out to all of us to act in special ways.
Knowing when something just doesn’t feel right is often our only clue. Our Company cannot reproduce and distribute every law or rule that exists everywhere we do business. While this Code of Business Conduct is framed by our experience with U.S. law; the principle of doing the right thing
and following applicable law applies to every community in which we do business. We must all grasp the intent and the spirit of our Code of Business Conduct and seek advice and counsel whenever we are uncertain about our choices of action.

ANTITRUST AND FAIR COMPETITION
We will compete vigorously and comply with all applicable antitrust and fair competition laws. These laws generally prohibit agreements that tend to restrict competition (such as agreements between competitors as to their pricing, bidding, production, supply, and customer practices), as well as a variety of forms of unfair conduct that may tend to create a monopoly. Because antitrust and fair competition laws are far-reaching and often complicated, you should seek legal advice before taking any action that might be questioned under such laws.

ANTI-CORRUPTION LAWS
We will comply with all anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or ”FCPA,” wherever we do business and in furtherance of this commitment all employees are required to comply with MRO 130
Anti-Corruption Compliance Standard. These laws generally forbid bribes to government officials or their representatives. While the U.S., like nearly all nations, outlaws bribing its own government officials, the FCPA also makes it a crime to bribe “foreign governmental officials,” a term that is broadly defined. In recent years, many countries have passed similar legislation.
The FCPA also requires the Company to keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its foreign and domestic transactions. You must consult with the Accounting Organization as soon as possible if you are concerned that the Company’s books, records, and accounts do not accurately reflect the Company’s transactions.
The Company requires comprehensive FCPA and anti-corruption compliance training for all employees whose job responsibilities involve FCPA and anti- corruption compliance.
 
(CONTINUED) WE WILL COMPLY WITH LEGAL AND REGULATORY STANDARDS.
 
WE HAVE A PROCESS THAT SUPPORTS EMPLOYEES IN THEIR SEARCH FOR
ALWAYS DOING THE RIGHT THINGS FOR THE RIGHT REASONS.
POLITICAL AND LOBBYING ACTIVITIES
The Company may use or contribute funds, property or services including, but not limited to, the use of meeting rooms, computer or mailing services and other Company resources, either directly or indirectly, to help the nomination or
election of any candidate to public office or supporting any referendum or other issue- related campaign or supporting political parties, provided such activity is permitted by applicable law, only when approved
by the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) or Vice President, Corporate, Government and Investor Relations. This applies with equal force to candidates or political parties in all countries, authorizing all forms of assistance or support by the Company.
Lobbying activity on behalf of the interests of our Company is permissible, but highly regulated by law. Any lobbying contact with
U.S. federal legislators, federal executive branch officials or their staff members or state or local government officials must be arranged through the Government Affairs Organization.
 
The Company recognizes that individual employees may support candidates for public office and make personal financial contributions to the election campaigns of candidates of their choice. While the Company does not discourage such individual political activity or campaign support, all such activities are at the employee’s sole direction and expense and no reimbursement in any form shall be made by the Company. No partisan political activities by any employee shall be conducted on Company premises or on Company time or utilizing Company
resources or under any circumstances which would create the appearance that such activity is sponsored by the Company, unless such activity is approved by the CEO or
Vice President, Corporate, Government and Investor  Relations.
Except for employees in the Government Affairs Organization, no employee conducting Company business, furthering the interests of the Company or using Company resources shall provide a gift, meal, transportation or anything of value to any U.S. federal legislator, federal executive branch official or his or her
 
QUESTIONS
If you have questions about policies, practices or our Code of Business Conduct, talk to your immediate supervisor or manager. If for some reason you are uncomfortable speaking with your immediate supervisor, please talk to another member of management or the Business Integrity Office. Don’t put it off. Time may be of the essence in avoiding a bigger problem.
If you are aware of any ethical issue or irregularity, don’t attempt to handle an investigation on your own. Ask for help from the resources listed below. Who you talk to is not as important as you talking to someone. Be confident that we will stand behind our Code of Business Conduct and stand behind those who raise issues in good faith.

RESOURCES
    Supervisor, Manager, Other Management
    Business Integrity Office
    Human Resources
    Law
    Audit
    Health, Environment, Safety & Security
INTEGRITY HELPLINE
The Integrity Helpline is an additional resource for anonymous advice or discussion of workplace behavior and ethics. There are two options for accessing the Integrity Helpline:
By Telephone: 877-713-8314
How do I know my issue will be taken
seriously?

Misconduct hurts all of us. The Company
wants to prevent unethical  or illegal conduct as much as you do. All issues received are carefully investigated.
Naturally, the more information you can provide, the more effective any investigation will be.

QUESTIONS? CONCERNS?
Talk to your management
or call the Integrity
 
GETTING HELP (CONTINUED)

WE HAVE A PROCESS THAT SUPPORTS EMPLOYEES IN THEIR SEARCH FOR ALWAYS DOING THE RIGHT THINGS FOR THE RIGHT REASONS.

REPORTING ILLEGAL OR UNETHICAL CONDUCT
The Integrity Helpline also enables employees, vendors, contractors, and the general public to report unethical or illegal acts, or suspicions of unethical or illegal acts. The Company will not allow retaliation against an employee who reports in good faith concerns about compliance with the law, compliance with this Code or other ethical concerns. The Business Integrity Office coordinates the resolution of all calls. This may include the involvement of Auditing; the Law Organization; Human Resources; Health, Environment, Safety & Security; and departmental management as necessary.
If an employee becomes aware of any issue concerning the financial integrity of the Company, including questionable accounting or auditing matters, he  or she must bring it to the attention of management or the Business Integrity Office. If requested by the employee, the Business Integrity Office will arrange for the confidential, anonymous submission to the Audit and Finance Committee of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
 
POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Our Code of Business Conduct provides an overview of many of the business conduct issues we face. Additional information about our policies and guidelines may be accessed through Business Integrity’s internal website.

OUR VALUES
No single document can list and explain every question or business practice. Remember the words found throughout our Code of Business Conduct – trust, respect, dignity and honesty. These values form the foundation for good decisions.
 “The Company will not allow retaliation against an employee who reports concerns in good faith.”
Max Planck Society
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

GUIDELINES AND RULES OF THE MAX PLANCK SOCIETY ON A RESPONSIBLE APPROACH TO FREEDOM OF RESEARCH AND RESEARCH RISKS
A. Freedom of research and the responsibility of scientists
Research plays a fundamental role in ensuring the progress of mankind. It enables the extension
of the boundaries of knowledge and enhances the welfare, prosperity and security of mankind
and the protection of the environment. The freedom of research, which is enshrined in the Basic
Law and may only be restricted to protect other significant constitutionally protected values, is a
fundamental requirement in this respect.1 Successful basic research also requires transparency,
the free exchange of information and the publication of research results.
However, as well as successes, there are also risks associated with free and transparent research2.
Such risks do not necessarily result directly from negligence or deliberate misconduct
by scientists.3 There is also the indirect danger that results of specific individual research projects
- which are neutral or useful per se - may be misused by third parties for harmful purposes.
4 This possibility of “dual use” prevents or makes it difficult to make a clear differentiation
in many fields today between “good” and “bad” research, civil and military research,
defensive and offensive research, and research for “peacekeeping” and “terrorist” purposes. The
dual use issue must also be taken into account in the knowledge-driven field of basic research,
the results of which are often unforeseeable, and therefore not good or bad per se.
In this highly complex relationship between benefits and risks, the Max Planck Society undertakes
to carry out research to foster the welfare of mankind and the protection of the environment.
Scientists must therefore prevent or minimize direct or indirect harm to man and the environment
as far as possible. In addition to the feasibility of the research, they should therefore
also take its consequences and controllability into account where possible. Research at the Max
Planck Society is therefore subject to ethical as well as legal limitations.
1 Article 5 Paragraph 3 of the Basic Law
2 These risks were particularly prevalent in Germany during the period of National Socialism. The Max
Planck Society and its employees are aware of the previous research carried out by the Kaiser
Wilhelm Society for National Socialist injustices. The history of the Kaiser Wilhelm Society therefore
represents a legacy for the Max Planck Society, ensuring it takes account of the potential misuse of research
results in good time, and counters this as effectively as possible. Also see the declaration of the
Max Planck Society and its former President, Hubert Markl, in: Max-Planck-Gesellschaft (Hrsg), Biowissenschaften
und Menschenversuche an Kaiser-Wilhelm-Instituten – Die Verbindung nach Auschwitz,
Symposium in Berlin, 2001.
3 Titles such as “researcher” and “scientist” are to be understood as job titles which include both sexes
in this text.
4 In the field of defense and weapons technology, materials research and nanotechnology could be used
for the development of offensive weapons; research into robots for peaceful purposes may enable the
construction of military robots; the development of bullet-proof materials for armor plating and protective
vests also provide improved protection for aggressors; the peaceful use of nuclear power can
also enhance the development of weapons of mass destruction. Research results on pathogenic microorganisms
and toxins can also be used for new biological weapons and for terrorist attacks. Research
into molecular plant genetics can be misused for biological attacks on seeds, and stem cell research
misused to create hybrids. In IT, research to combat computer viruses can be used to spread as well as
prevent them.
The issue of dual use of research results also applies in the human sciences: psychological, medical
and neurobiological research can be used to optimize aggressive methods of interrogation and torture.
Criminological and sociological research may infringe upon the privacy and data protection rights of
probands. Legal opinions may favor infringement upon human rights or the sovereignty of states in
complex overlapping areas. Risks of misuse therefore exist in most areas of research.
4
B. Research limitations
Research limitations are, in the first instance, determined by legal provisions. These may restrict
the freedom of research to protect significant constitutionally protected values, provided this is
proportionate. The relevant provisions have different objectives and approaches. They may prohibit
research objectives (e.g. the development of nuclear and biological weapons), regulate
methods (e.g. certain experiments on humans) or ban the export of knowledge, services and
products to certain countries (e.g. within the framework of German foreign trade law or the EU
regulation on the control of exports of dual-use items and technology). These regulations must
be strictly adhered to at the Max Planck Society. Infringements of them can result in significant
sanctions, lengthy procedures and damage to the reputation of scientists, their institutes and the
Max Planck Society.
However, national law is not always capable of comprehensively and effectively governing the
risks and opportunities for misuse of research. In particular, the potential misuse of specific
individual research cannot be prevented by adopting a generally distrustful approach to research
per se and making it subject to comprehensive government regulation. Even highly detailed
legal regulations would not sufficiently take account of the differentiated and rapidly changing
global issues of area-specific risks and, moreover, would conflict with the freedom of research
enshrined in the constitution. However, individual scientists must not simply satisfy themselves
with adhering to the legal regulations, but must take account of further ethical principles. They
should apply their knowledge, experience and capabilities to recognize and assess the relevant
risks of harm to humans and the environment. In critical cases, they should make personal decisions
on the limitations of their work, for which they are themselves responsible within the
scope of their freedom of research. In individual cases, this may result in projects not being
carried out at all or only being carried out in a modified form, even if they are not legally prohibited.
The following rules - approved by the Scientific Council and the Senate of the Max Planck Society
- support persons working at the Max Planck Society in the implementation of these principles.
They do not constitute enforceable national law. They aim to prevent misuse of research
and to avoid risks through self-regulation by setting out ethical guidelines and, at the same time,
establish a procedure to enable scientists to better resolve ethical uncertainties and prevent accusations
of unethical conduct. The rules, which apply to the entire Max Planck Society, are not
exhaustive and are supplemented by additional subject-specific self-regulatory measures.5 The
Max Planck Society welcomes the involvement of its institutes and employees in the development
of additional subject and profession-specific regulations outside of the Max Planck Society
on the basis of these guidelines and rules to enable risks to be discussed transparently and
avoided. Together with the following rules, these specific codes foster the Max Planck Society’s
commitment to excellent basic research for the benefit of mankind and the environment.
5 See, for example, for the field of research on humans: Declaration of the World Medical Association
of Helsinki/Tokyo (1964/75) with various subsequent revisions. For the field of bio-security: German
Research Foundation – Code of Conduct: work with highly pathogenic microorganisms and toxins,
2008; National Science Advisory Board for Bio Security, Proposed Framework for the Oversight of
Dual Use Life Sciences Research: Strategy for Minimizing the Potential Misuse of Research Information,
2007, Strategic Plan for Outreach and Education On Dual Use Research Issues, 2008; Royal
Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, A Code of Conduct for Bio Security, Report by the Bio
Security Working Group, Amsterdam August 2007.
5
II. RULES ON A RESPONSIBLE APPROACH TO FREEDOM
OF RESEARCH AND RESEARCH RISKS AT THE MAX
PLANCK SOCIETY
A. General objective and scope
1. Objective
These rules aim to prevent misuse of research and avoid risks through self-regulation based on
ethical principles. They also establish a procedure to enable researchers to better resolve ethical
uncertainties and prevent accusations of unethical conduct.
2. Scope
The rules apply to everyone working at the Max Planck Society’s institutions, or with their resources
at other locations. They should also be observed by Max Planck Society researchers in
their scientific activities outside of the society, e.g. within the scope of consultation or joint
responsibility for companies or journals. The status of the various researchers (in particular,
Scientific Members, senior research scientists, external Scientific Members, academic staff,
doctoral students and guest scientists) and non-scientific employees is to be taken into account
in their application to persons working at the Max Planck Society. The status of these persons
may have an influence on their freedom of research and any right of authority the Max Planck
Society may exercise over them.
3. Status of the rules with regard to other regulations
These rules apply in addition to the “Rules of Good Scientific Practice” of the Max Planck Society.
As general provisions for all areas of research, they may be supplemented by specific selfregulatory
measures, which have or will be drawn up by other institutions for specific areas of
research. Provided these specific codes conform to the general principles set out here, and do
not infringe upon the freedom of research enshrined in the Basic Law, they may supplement and
more precisely define these rules. Legal provisions take precedence over these rules and other
self-regulatory measures.
6
B. Legal research limitations
German law applies to Max Planck Society researchers working in Germany. The locally applicable
law applies, in principle, for Max Planck Society institutes and partner institutes abroad.
Researchers working abroad may also be subject to their national law. International law must
also be observed.6 Legal provisions apply provided they do not infringe upon law which takes
precedence or is higher ranking (in particular, international human rights).
Scientists are individually responsible for adhering to the applicable legal provisions. They must
confirm the provisions applicable to them and their area of research, and ensure they are adhered
to within the scope of their responsibilities. They are not generally exonerated by ignorance
of the applicable law.
The Administrative Headquarters of the Max Planck Society supports the institutes in adhering
to the legal provisions (see D.2 below). It thus performs its statutory supervisory duty, providing
a means of intervention in the event of infringements against the law within the Max Planck
Society.
C. Principles of ethically responsible research
1. General principle
The Max Planck Society undertakes to carry out research which extends the boundaries of
knowledge and enhances the welfare of mankind and the protection of the environment. Scientists
must therefore prevent or minimize direct or indirect harm to humans and the environment
as far as possible.
Researchers must not satisfy themselves with adhering to legal regulations when making applicable
decisions, but must also take account of ethical principles. They must essentially be aware
of the danger of misuse of research. In critical cases, they must make a personal decision on the
area of responsibility in their research.
In cases of research susceptible to risk of misuse, a responsible approach to research involves
the following measures in particular - recognizing and minimizing research risks, a meticulous
approach to publications, the documentation of risks, and information and training measures.
However, these measures should not unduly hinder research and are subject to feasibility and
proportionality.
2. Risk analysis
Awareness of the potential risks is a prerequisite for responsible research. Raising awareness of
the relevant dangers is therefore a key requirement in the avoidance, or at least control, of research
risks in both basic research and applied research. As far as possible, researchers should
therefore take account of the consequences and opportunities for application and misuse of their
work and its controllability. Research projects that are potentially susceptible to risk should
therefore be preceded by an evaluation of the associated risks to human dignity, human life and
6 e.g. protection of human rights, international humanitarian law, the prohibition of torture and use of
force, biodiversity convention.
7
human welfare, the environment and any other significant values protected under the constitution.
The identification of research risks does not only concern risks relating to individual conduct.
Researchers should also take account of the consequences of research susceptible to risk of misuse,
which they carry out for neutral or useful purposes, but the results of which may be applied
for harmful purposes or misused by third parties. Risk analysis and the evaluation of consequences
require an open-minded and responsible approach. It may be necessary for researchers
to find out about the context of the research project, the nature of a customer or cooperation
partner or about their customers.
3. Risk minimization
Researchers and all other persons involved should minimize, as far as possible, the risks associated
with the implementation or use of their work to human dignity, life, welfare, freedom and
property, and to the protection of the environment. These measures on risk minimization should
be assessed and carried out both before and during an ongoing research project.
This may result in the implementation of security measures (e.g. to counter the release or theft
of dangerous substances from laboratories) or the enhancement of the confidentiality of research
results through physical, organizational and personal protective measures and more rigorous IT
security. Such security measures and access restrictions do not conflict with the requirement for
transparency as research results are not required to be made accessible to everyone at all times
(also see C.4).
Employees and cooperation partners working on research susceptible to misuse must be selected
meticulously based on their reliability and sense of responsibility. If government authorities
meet security evaluation requirements, cooperation on the risks of proliferation of securityrelevant
research results may be appropriate.
Risk minimization measures may also consist of only carrying out specific research for or with
certain cooperation partners. Even though international cooperation is a fundamental element of
successful research, a restriction of international cooperation or avoidance of partners or staff
from certain states may be recommendable in individual cases from a risk minimization perspective.
National and international provisions and lists on export restrictions may constitute a
basis for identifying states where a misuse of certain research results is a danger.
4. Publications
The possible consequences of publication of results in high-risk research areas should be evaluated
responsibly and at an early stage, i.e. before the start of the project. This applies, in particular,
where easily implementable research results could produce specific dangers or significant
damages without additional knowledge or costly implementation or application processes.
In such cases, security interests conflict with the principles applied at the Max Planck Society
on transparency, the free exchange of information and, in particular, the publication of research
results.7 Their exchange and publication are key factors in scientific progress. In many risk areas,
the publication of results also enables the development of protective measures (e.g. vaccines
in healthcare or anti-virus programs in IT). In contrast, suppression of research results may
7 See Max Planck Society, Rules of Good Scientific Practice, 2009, Section 1c.
8
prevent effective protection against their misuse by totalitarian regimes, terrorist groups, organized
criminal groups or individual criminals.
The requirements for transparency and communication do not prevent scientists from minimizing
specific risks of their research by modifying communication and publication procedures.
They may delay the publication of the results of their work, rather than publishing immediately.
In the case of research results with a high degree of potential for misuse, parts of the results
which are particularly susceptible to misuse may be excluded from the publication in special
cases.
In certain cases, researchers may only share specific results of their work with certain persons.
Complete avoidance of communication and publication of research results may be considered as
ultima ratio. This is only justified in extraordinary individual cases, and possibly for a certain
period. Research which from the outset is subject to comprehensive confidentiality for an unforeseeable
period of time is incongruous with the self-conception of the Max Planck Society.
The aforementioned principles also apply when employees of the Max Planck Society publish
journals or books. Employees in such positions working in relevant risk areas should ensure that
the publication of research results and the policy of the publishing houses and other institutions
they are working with conform to the principles set out here.
5. Foregoing irresponsible research as ultima ratio
The main aim of the risk analysis is responsible implementation and communication of the research.
However, responsible decision-making by researchers may, in individual cases, result as
ultima ratio in specific research projects, where risk potential is disproportionate or cannot be
restricted, not being carried out, even if this is not prohibited by law.
In the case of work which could have harmful as well as beneficial effects, in particular in the
field of dual use research, it is difficult to determine and apply criteria for possible limitations.
The necessary ethical evaluation of the remaining risks after the definition of possible protective
measures may be assisted by considering the question of whether, on balance, the potential
damages outweigh the potential benefits of the research.
The extent of possible damages and the risk of damage occurrence should be taken into account
when examining this question. In cases where there is threat of dangers, the following factors
should be taken into account: the extent of possible damages, the probability of damage risk,
whether the research results could be used directly for harmful purposes, or whether complex
implementation processes are required, and whether the use of the results could be controlled.
Other decisive factors may be who the cooperation partners, customers, users and parties funding
the research are. The point of departure should be that if certain research projects at risk of
misuse are being carried out by other parties without corresponding security standards or for
harmful purposes, research aiming to counter such dangers or minimize resulting damages may
be acceptable.
6. Documentation and communication of risks
If research results in risks for human dignity, life and welfare, the environment and other significant
values protected under the constitution, these risks, their weighing up against possible
benefits, the measures taken to minimize them beforehand and, in the event of changes, also
during the work should be documented.
In the case of such risks, scientists should inform the Ethics Commission or the Vice President
responsible about the documentation before the research begins.
9
Relevant risks and measures to minimize them should be indicated in research applications to
the Max Planck Society and other funding institutions. The measures foreseen should be set out.
The Scientific Advisory Board of the institute should also be informed about particular risks and
measures to minimize them as soon as possible, and should take a position on them in its report.
7. Training and information
At institute level, and, above all, in the training of junior scientists at the Max Planck Society,
the principles of a responsible approach to research risks should be communicated and an example
should be set. The subject-specific rules on risk minimization in the respective field of
research should also be covered. Where researchers from the Max Planck Society lecture at
universities or other institutions, they should also contribute to raising awareness about these
issues.
D. Organizational responsibilities
1. Persons responsible
The evaluation of whether research complies with legal provisions, self-regulatory measures and
ethical principles is, in the first instance, the responsibility of the scientists responsible for the
project. Ultimately, the scientists’ superiors bear responsibility, in particular within the scope of
the legal requirement for duty of supervision.
The scientists involved should primarily inform the scientists responsible, but if necessary in
specific cases also the head of the research department, the Managing Director of the institute
concerned, and, in extraordinary cases, the management of the Max Planck Society, of infringements
of the law, which have occurred or are set to occur and of ethical reservations without
this disadvantaging them.
The principles set out here also apply when scientists from the Max Planck Society act as referees
in the evaluation of projects of other researchers. Employees in such positions should ensure
that research applications set out and minimize possible risks in risk areas.
Scientific Members, employees and doctoral students of the Max Planck Society can consult the
Compliance Unit and the Legal Affairs Department of Administrative Headquarters on matters
concerning the legal limitations of research and the Ethics Commission of the Max Planck Society
on matters concerning ethical limitations. Employees can also consult the ombudsperson
elected at institute level with regard to issues of research risks and research ethics.
2. Compliance with legal provisions
At Administrative Headquarters, in addition to the Legal Affairs Department, a special Compliance
Unit is responsible for supporting the President and the institutes with regard to compliance
with legal provisions on research limitations.
This unit advises the President and the institutes, makes the applicable regulations available and
trains persons working at the institutes in applicable measures. It may obtain information from
the institutes to the extent necessary. The Compliance Unit reports directly to the President and
the Vice President concerned.
Persons working at the Max Planck Society may contact the Compliance Unit at any time if, in
their opinion, legal provisions to prevent the misuse of research are not being complied with at
10
the Max Planck Society. The regulations on the protection of “whistleblowers”8 apply accordingly.
If research infringes upon legally binding provisions, the President or the institute director responsible
undertakes the legal and other measures necessary.
3. Ethics Commission
An Ethics Commission is to be established to provide advice on issues resulting from the implementation
of these rules. This provides support for researchers at the Max Planck Society on
issues of research ethics, mediates in differences of opinion between researchers on relevant
matters and issues recommendations on the implementation of research projects.
The Ethics Commission consists of three permanent Members of the Max Planck Society (Permanent
Commission), who belong to different sections and are elected, together with their deputies,
by the Scientific Council at the proposal of their section. The three members elect the
chairperson of the Permanent Commission. Their term of office is three years.
In the individual procedures on the evaluation of research projects, the chairperson of the section
concerned is also part of the Ethics Commission. In addition, the members of the Permanent
Commission and the chairperson of the section responsible can elect up to two other Members,
who are eligible to vote and have particular expertise in the scientific field concerned or
other fields relevant to decision-making, to the Commission responsible for a specific procedure.
The Commission should have an interdisciplinary composition in terms of Members from
the sciences and human sciences. It may designate a rapporteur for the individual processes.
The Ethics Commission may be requested to examine whether a planned or current project
complies with these rules by any researcher involved in or responsible for a project. In the event
of uncertainty about whether research complies with these ethical rules, it may also be called
upon by the President and, provided a justified interest exists, by any Scientific Member, employee
or doctoral student of the Max Planck Society as well as external cooperation partners.
The aforementioned regulations on the protection of whistleblowers apply to persons providing
information (Section. 9, Max Planck Society Rules of Good Scientific Practice).
All researchers responsible are to be informed immediately about uncertainties concerning the
compliance of their research with these rules, and are to be heard by the Ethics Commission.
They have the right to submit a written or oral position statement at any time, and to consult the
relevant documents as far as possible. They are to be informed about the Commission’s main
procedural steps and may participate in hearings and inquiries. They are to be informed immediately
of the Ethics Commission’s conclusive recommendation and the grounds on which it is
based through the sending of the Commission’s written position statement.
The Ethics Commission may call upon experts (not eligible to vote) for consultation. It may
request information for clarification of the facts from the institute director or employees and
question relevant holders of information in person or in writing. It may also request a position
statement from the chairperson of the Scientific Advisory Board of the institute concerned.
A recommendation of the Ethics Commission on the compliance or non-compliance of research
with these rules requires the approval of a majority of its members. In the event of a tie, the
chairperson has the casting vote in all votes. The same applies when the Ethics Commission is
issuing recommendations on the method of implementation of a research project or its non-
8 See Max Planck Society, Rules of Good Scientific Practice, 2009, Section 9.
11
implementation based on these rules. The Ethics Commission can take the aforementioned decisions
based on a proposal by the rapporteur by the written procedure (also by e-mail) provided
those concerned had the opportunity to make a position statement prior to the rapporteur’s proposal.
The Ethics Commission regularly reports to the Scientific Council on its work.
The Ethics Commission may, within the framework of these provisions and with the approval of
the Scientific Council and the Senate, draw up its own rules of procedure for examining the
approach to research risks. Provided no extraordinary regulations apply to the Ethics Commission,
the provisions on formal investigation of the rules of procedure in the event of suspicion of
scientific malpractice apply in procedures concerning legal research limitations.
Mitsubishi Chemical 
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Japan
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct


Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group Compliance Code of Conduct

[Chapter 1: Awareness and Responsibility] 1-1   Awareness of Social Responsibility
Recognizing corporate social responsibility, we will strive to win public trust by contributing to the affluence and comfort of society by offering socially beneficial goods and services based upon the expertise and technologies we have developed in various fields of endeavors, including chemistry.

1-2 Responsible Care for the Environment

We will commit ourselves to the protection of the environment and endeavor to reduce environmental burden in the course of all our business activities, including promotion of resource and energy conservation, waste reduction, reuse and recycling, as well as environmental conservation and development of its technologies.

1-3 Responsible Care for Safety

Recognizing safety assurance as a corporate social responsibility, we will place top priority on safety in the course of all our business activities, which include ensuring the safety of all our products and services, including adequate handling of chemical substances, as well as operational safety.

[Chapter 2 Fairness, Equitability and Integrity]

2-1 Respect for the Dignity and Rights of Individuals

We will respect individual human rights and character. We will abstain from any conduct that undermines individual dignity, such as discrimination against others on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, disability, disease and social status; we will also avoid language and behavior that offends others, such as sexual harassment.
We will also adhere to internationally recognized norms, eschew forced labor in all of its forms, and support the effective abolition of child labor.

2-2 Creating a Motivational Workplace

We will strive to create a motivational workplace that provides job satisfaction to Group members through the nurturing of respect for diverse personalities and values, the creation  of  a  free  and  open-minded  working  environment  in  which  individual
 
employees can manifest their best qualities, and the fostering of mutual trust through fair and equitable personnel treatment.

2-3 Customer Relations

We will listen to the voices of our customers and take a pro-customer approach so that we will be able to respond with utmost sincerity and offer safe and high-quality products and services.

2-4 Partnership/Vendor Relations

Based on the basic understanding that all business partners and vendors are our partners in conducting business, we will endeavor to foster mutual trust through fair and equitable transactions.

2-5 Ethical Business and Government Relations

We will abstain from illicit political donations, illegal incentives and bribe-giving to politicians and public servants, and strive to maintain healthy and transparent relations with political and governmental organizations at all times.

2-6 Severing Ties with Anti-Social Influences

We will take a firm stand against anti-social influences that disrupt social order and threaten sound activities, and never involve ourselves in malfeasance or anti-social conduct. We will not provide any favors, including financial, to anti-social influences, under any circumstances whatsoever.

[Chapter 3  Strict Compliance]

3-1 Compliance with Laws and Regulations

We will conduct business by adhering to high ethical standards and sound common sense, and comply with all relevant laws and regulations in and outside of Japan, socially-recognized rules and standards, agreements and promises we have entered into with our customers, vendors, business partners and local communities, as well as our corporate rules and manuals.
In particular:

① We will comply with relevant administrative laws and regulations applicable to our businesses and perform procedures required by such, including obtaining official approval and licenses and notification; and reporting properly and in complete
 
detail.
② We will comply with the Antimonopoly Act*and other relevant laws and regulations, abstain from illegal conduct such as forming cartels, engaging in bid-rigging and abusing one’s dominant bargaining position, and participate in fair and free competition in the marketplace.
③ We will comply with the Unfair Competition Prevention Law* and other relevant
laws and regulations, and shall not pursue our commercial interest by improper means such as illicit acquisition of others’ trade secrets, or acts that may be detrimental to others’ commercial interests.
④ We will comply with the Subcontract Act* and other relevant laws and regulations
and abstain from engaging in conduct that may be detrimental to subcontractors’ interests, such as delays in payment.
⑤ We will comply with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Law* and other
relevant laws and regulations, and properly handle the import/export of raw materials, products, and other items. We will also abstain from exporting products and technologies that may destabilize international peace and security.
⑥ In addition to laws and regulations pertaining to accounting procedures and taxes,
we will abide by generally accepted accounting standards as we implement proper accounting procedures, ensure the reliability of our financial reports, and make appropriate tax payments.
⑦ We will comply with the Labour Standard Law* and other relevant laws and
regulations, and strive to maintain pleasant working conditions including occupational safety and health.
⑧ We will not engage in fraudulent transactions prohibited under the Financial
Instruments and Exchange Act* and other relevant laws and regulations, including the trading of stocks and corporate bonds by taking advantage of undisclosed information one has come to know in the course of one’s work.
⑨ We will correctly record business transactions and activities, including the signing of
contracts, and properly manage and maintain the records in accordance with relevant laws and regulations as well as relevant internal rules.
Note: The names of individual laws referred to in this Chapter are those then effective in Japan and, therefore, please replace them with corresponding laws and regulations of your country.

3-2 Protection of Intellectual Property

We will endeavor to develop innovative technologies, products and services, and obtain intellectual property rights and commercialize them. In this process, we shall not infringe upon the intellectual property owned by other parties, including patents, utility models, designs, trademarks and copyrights.

3-3 Protection of Personal Data
 

We will strictly control personal data pertaining to employees, customers and other stakeholders that we may have access to in the performance of our duties. Unless personal consent is secured, we will not disclose or leak any personal data to third parties or other employees who have no need to acquire the information in terms of business, and, at the same time, will not use it for purposes other than the original intent.

3-4 Confidentiality

Strict control must be maintained over trade secrets and other confidential information belonging to the company or to third parties (including customer information and technical know-how) that one might obtain in the performance of one’s business duties. Without the express permission of the proper authorities, such confidential information must never be disclosed or leaked to third parties or to internal staff who have no legitimate need for it, and must never be used for purposes other than the original intent.

[Chapter 4 Prudence]

4-1 Prudent Conduct

In our relationships with customers, vendors and other business partners, we will not engage in misleading acts such as offering or receiving business entertainment and gifts that go beyond business norms or exceed the bounds of limits acceptable to the industry.

4-2 Appropriate Use of Corporate Assets

Corporate assets and expenses, both tangible and intangible, must be used properly to achieve corporate business objectives and must not be used for personal purposes.

4-3 Appropriate Use of Information Systems

Pursuant to relevant internal rules, corporate networks and operation software will be used only for business operations authorized by the company. Wrongful acts such as hacking into the information system, damaging, falsifying or altering data, or making unauthorized use of computer software, are not permitted.

4-4 Preventing Conflict of Interest

We shall not exploit our official positions and authority or information we may have
 
access to in the performance of our duties to engage in acts that benefit ourselves or third parties, nor shall we involve ourselves in activities that may compete against our corporate businesses, without corporate permission.

4-5 Prohibition of Political/Religious Activities at the Workplace

We will not engage in political or religious activities at the workplace, including solicitation on behalf of political or religious groups or requests for votes, without corporate authorization.

4-6 Discontinuance of Empty Formalities

Except for those within the acceptable business norms, in-house and inter-Group gift-giving and exchange of gifts and items should be shunned in view of abolishing empty formalities.

[Chapter 5 Transparency and Openness]

5-1 Co-existence with Local Communities

We will strive to deepen our understanding of the cultures and customs of the countries and communities in which we operate our businesses, respect their social norms, and harmoniously co-exist with local communities as good corporate citizens through participating in activities that contribute to society.

5-2 Appropriate Disclosure of Information

As a corporate group open to society, we will maintain the transparency of our activities and appropriately disclose relevant information to promote public understanding of our activities. Pursuant to relevant laws and regulations, we will also accurately and adequately disclose financial data and information pertaining to the state of our business activities to shareholders and investors.

5-3 Open Workplace

We will maintain an open environment at the workplace where members feel comfortable about discussing anything. If, at the workplace, one learns of acts committed that violate laws and regulations or transgress this Code of Conduct, or the possibility of such acts, one must not conceal or neglect it but report it to the Company for a solution through the management or other systems, such as the Compliance Hot Line.
Muntajat 
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Qatar
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct
January 2013
Qatar Chemical and Petrochemical Marketing and Distribution Company Q.J.S.C.
1.  Introduction
Muntajat operates pursuant to speciﬁc mandates established by Law of the State of Qatar. That Law provides, among other things, that:
Muntajat shall only act in accordance with this Law and the following Core Principles, which are hereby determined to be in the national interest of the State of Qatar. Muntajat shall establish a business model, governance structure and operating policies that are consistent with such Core Principles.
The Core Principles are:
1.  Provide an effective and efﬁcient marketing arm in support of the Government's chemical and petrochemical development activities;
2.  Compete effectively in global markets;
3.  Seek to maximise the effectiveness and efﬁciency of the purchase and sales of, and therefore the value of, the regulated products for the beneﬁt of the Government and the Producing Entities;
4.  Purchase and sell the regulated products in
a manner that is fair and equitable with respect to each Producing Entity and
without inappropriate discrimination among or against any of the Producing Entities;
5.  Seek to avoid adversely affecting the
operations of Producing Entities and the supply of regulated products to markets;
6.  Ensure effective management and appropriate mitigation of commercial risk;
7.  Maintain high levels of ethics and business integrity;
8.  Provide appropriate transparency in relation to the conduct of business and internal operations; and,
9.  Comply with all applicable legal requirements.
Muntajat operates pursuant to speciﬁc mandates established by Law of the State of Qatar. That Law provides, among other things, that:
Muntajat shall only act in accordance with this Law and the following Core Principles, which are hereby determined to be in the national interest of the State of Qatar. Muntajat shall establish a business model, governance structure and operating policies that are consistent with such Core Principles:
Muntajat directors, ofﬁcers and employees shall at all times act in conformity with the State of Qatar’s policy and legal mandates, apply high standards of integrity in all business transactions, ensure that sound commercial practices are applied and observe this Code of Conduct both to the letter and spirit. In the event of conﬂict between any provision of this Code of Conduct and the Law, Memo and Articles of Association the latter shall prevail(1).
The Code of Conduct is intended to be comprehensive and easily understood. In some instances, however, additional guidance might be required for unusual or unanticipated circumstances or for those directly involved with certain particular areas. Employees shall in those circumstances in ﬁrst instance seek further guidance and clariﬁcations from their direct supervisors.
The Code of Conduct seeks to provide guidance and conﬁdential channels to raise concerns, seek advice or report violations.
Muntajat’s Memorandum and Articles of Association have been prescribed by the Council of Ministers in conformity with the Law and Core Principles.
 (1.) The Law and the Memorandum and Articles of Association, are attached to this Code of Conduct. This Code of Conduct may be supplemented by Interpretive Guidance, which may be issued from time to time. Additional contemporaneous interpretative materials are in the possession of the General Counsel, who is available to assist in resolving any questions of interpretation that may arise.
2.  Application of the Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct has been developed to carry out Muntajat’s mandate and to ensure that all business dealings are conducted with required ethical standards and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The obligations under the Code of Conduct apply to Muntajat’s directors, ofﬁcers and employees as well as to the relations with customers, government ofﬁcials, producing entities and their shareholders, ofﬁcers and employees, third-party contractors, vendors, and consultants. Adherence to its spirit, as well as its speciﬁc provisions, is absolutely critical for all who conduct Muntajat business, act on behalf of Muntajat and those who maintain other relationships with Muntajat.
 
Muntajat will ensure that third parties are aware of the contents of the Code of Conduct by providing them with a copy and by drafting speciﬁc references to it and its requirements under the Code of Conduct in all contracts and agreements entered into with third parties.
In some areas covered by this Code of Conduct, the required standards and obligations are supplemented by additional material in the attached Appendices.
3.  Complying with Laws & Regulations
Muntajat, its directors, ofﬁcers and employees are required to comply with all laws and regulations applicable to its operations. Muntajat business activities may also take place or have effects outside the State of Qatar and thus may be subject to the laws, rules and regulations of jurisdictions other than those of the State of Qatar. These laws, which may vary in different jurisdictions, affect Muntajat’s behaviour and the dealings with customers, contractors and competitors in general.
Muntajat, its Directors, ofﬁcers and employees are responsible for understanding these laws and regulations and shall obtain Legal Counsel’s advice as required. Compliance is an operational obligation of all directors, ofﬁcers and employees when conducting Muntajat business activities and they are personally accountable for applying the highest standards under all circumstances.
4.  Code of Ethics for:
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Executive Director For Finance, Executive Director For Planning & Senior Finance Staff
Muntajat has a Code of Conduct applicable to all of its directors, ofﬁcers and employees and is committed to uncompromising integrity in the conduct of its business and of its ﬁnancial reporting.
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (CEO), Executive Director for Finance, Executive Director for Planning, Treasurer and the Accounting Manager are bound by the provisions set forth therein relating to honest and ethical conduct, including the handling of conﬂicts of interest and compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
In addition to this Code of Conduct, the CEO, Executive Director for Finance, Executive Director for Planning, Treasurer and Accounting Manager are subject to the following additional speciﬁc policy for dealing with matters related to Internal Control, Financial Reporting, Disclosure and Audit.
Responsibility
The CEO, Executive Director for Finance, Executive Director for Planning, Treasurer and Accounting Manager are responsible for:
Maintaining accounting records in accordance with accounting and reporting policies and applicable laws and regulations, and ensuring that accounting records are proper, supported, classiﬁed, and do not contain any false or misleading entries.
The protection of conﬁdential or commercially sensitive information acquired in the course of the performance of their responsibilities except when otherwise authorised or legally obligated to disclose.
The retention and/or proper disposal of records in accordance with established policies and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The prevention of inappropriate communication  or  collaboration  with competitors or others.
The System of Internal Financial Controls
Providing in all ofﬁcial reports, documents, written and oral communications, statements and presentations a complete, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure.
While Performing Their Duties They Shall:
1.  Promptly bring to the attention of the Audit Committee any information they may have concerning (a) signiﬁcant deﬁciencies  and material weaknesses in the design or operation of Internal Control over ﬁnancial reporting which are likely to adversely affect Muntajat’s records, processes and reported ﬁnancial data; (b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees.
2.  In all circumstances correctly and to the best of their knowledge represent the facts. They will be considered to have knowingly misrepresented facts if they (a) make, or permit or direct another to make, materially false or misleading entries in ﬁnancial statements or records; (b) fail to correct materially false and misleading  ﬁnancial statements or records; (c) sign, or permit another to sign, a document containing materially false and misleading information; (d) falsely respond, or fail to respond, to speciﬁc inquires of the External Auditor or regulatory authorities.
3.  Not take any action to inﬂuence, manipulate, or mislead independent public or certiﬁed public accountants engaged in the performance of an audit or review of the ﬁnancial statements. This having as consequence that (a) The report on the ﬁnancial statements is not warranted in the circumstances, due to material violations of generally accepted accounting principles, generally accepted auditing standards, or other applicable standards; (b) The auditor cannot perform the audit, review or other procedures required by generally accepted auditing standards or other applicable professional standards; (c) The auditor cannot communicate relevant matters to the Audit Committee;
4.  Code of Ethics for:
The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Executive Director For Finance, Executive Director For Planning & Senior Finance Staff (Continued)
 (d) Never let business dealings on behalf of Muntajat be inﬂuenced, or even appear to be inﬂuenced, by personal or family interests.
Responsibility for Reporting of Breaches
The CEO, Executive Director for Finance, Executive Director for Planning, Treasurer and Accounting Manager shall promptly bring to the attention of the Audit Committee and the Ethics and Compliance Committee:
Any information concerning evidence of a material breach of applicable laws, rules or regulations, or any breach of this Code of Ethics.
Any information concerning conﬂicts of interest (actual or apparent) between personal and professional relationships, involving management or other employees who have a signiﬁcant role in ﬁnancial reporting, disclosures or internal controls.
Assurance of Compliance
The CEO, Executive Director for Finance, Executive Director for Planning, Treasurer and Accounting Manager will attach their conﬁrmation to the Code of Conduct in the following format:
I have read and understand the <CODE OF ETHICS FOR THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR FINANCE. EXECUTIVE  DIRECTOR  FOR  PLANNING,  AND
SENIOR FINANCE STAFF>. I will adhere in all respects to the standards and requirements described and I further conﬁrm my understanding that for any breach of the Code of Ethics the disciplinary processes and measures apply and may ultimately result in dismissal.
Investigation
Muntajat is committed to complying with the letter and spirit of all applicable laws, rules and regulations and intends to prevent the occurrence of conduct not in compliance with this Code of Conduct and to investigate and halt any such conduct that may occur as soon as reasonably possible after its discovery.
5.  Books & Records
All ﬁnancial transactions shall be accounted for in the books of account in an accurate and timely manner. All accounting entries shall be made according to established internal controls and supported by appropriate documentation.
Accounting and Reporting Requirements
Muntajat is required to follow strict accounting principles and standards, to report ﬁnancial information accurately and completely, and to have appropriate internal controls and processes to ensure that accounting and ﬁnancial reporting complies with applicable laws.
Documentation
Employees shall not intentionally  cause documents to be incorrect and shall not create or participate in the creation of any records that are intended to conceal anything that is not proper.
Contractual Arrangements
All contracts shall be in writing and fully reﬂect the undertaking, and can only be entered into after comprehensive legal review. Ofﬁcers and employees shall not make unusual ﬁnancial or commercial arrangements with a customer, supplier, or any third party, for payments on their behalf to a party not related to the transaction.
Documentation of Compliance
Dialogue regarding signiﬁcant commercial decisions, discussions with substantial customers and actual or potential competitors should be consistent with the legal mandates and with this Code of Conduct and should, insofar as possible, be in writing or memorialised in writing. Major actions should be supported by documentation of consistency with the mandates and this Code.
Reporting
Dishonest - internal reporting to management, Internal Audit or during an internal investigation, or - reporting to third parties, such as external
auditors, is strictly prohibited. This also refers to not only reporting information inaccurately but also to arranging and presenting it in a way that is intended to mislead the recipients.
Records  Management
Records and documents are kept for the operation of Muntajat business undertakings and also to meet legal, audit and regulatory requirements.
All employees shall comply with the Muntajat guidelines and standards in respect of Records Management for the retention and disposal of documents, information in any media, including both hard copy and electronic records and emails.
Audit
All records shall be made available for inspection by Auditors and / or any other relevant body.
All persons in the employment of Muntajat shall be subject to the following principles to guide their behaviour and conduct whilst carrying out their duties in respect of Muntajat commercial business activities or representing Muntajat in any other manner.
Guiding Principles
All ofﬁcers and  persons in  the employment of Muntajat:
Shall strictly comply with the Muntajat Code of Conduct and this Conﬂict of Interest Policy
Shall perform their duties with high standards of honesty, integrity and fairness and promote a business environment that adheres to the same standards.
Shall not have commitments or engage in business activities or interests outside Muntajat that would affect the proper conduct of their duties. Participation in non-proﬁt charitable activities and societies shall be exempted from the aforementioned.
Shall not have any direct or indirect interest in companies that enter into contracts with, supply or render services to Muntajat. Where family members have such interests, these shall be disclosed in writing.

Shall not provide unduly favourable conditions to parties dealing with Muntajat, which would be detrimental to the interests of Muntajat.
Shall not make decisions in respect of any transaction or dealing in which a conﬂict of interest arises or could arise. In the event that such circumstance arises, management is to be notiﬁed and shall appoint another employee without a conﬂict of interest to perform the activity. A formal report explaining the conﬂict or potential conﬂict of interest shall be submitted to the Ethics and Compliance Committee.
Shall not accept on their own behalf, spouse or other relative, favours from third parties in whatsoever form with respect to the business dealings of Muntajat. The acceptance of business gifts of minor nominal value, invitations to work related lunches, dinners and entertainment of reasonable occurrence and value are acceptable as per the gifts and entertainment policies.
Authorised Exceptions
All exceptions to the Conﬂict of Interest policy shall be approved by the Board of Directors following a formal recommendation from the Ethics and Compliance Committee. The Ethics and Compliance Committee has the sole authority to consider and then recommend exceptions to the Conﬂict of Interest policy. The decision shall be in writing with relevant detail and clear indication of the expiration date of the permitted exception.
A report of permitted exceptions will be drawn up annually and considered in the Board of Directors meeting.
Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees shall conduct all business undertakings in accordance with the principles of fair competition and adhere to both the letter and spirit of applicable competition/antitrust laws and regulations. Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees shall avoid any practice that may result in or be perceived to result in restriction of competition or be perceived to be doing so.
The objective of competition/antitrust laws also known as monopoly, fair trade or cartel laws, is to promote competition and prevent interference with the orderly functioning of a competitive market system. Competition must provide the opportunity to compete on price and quality, in an open market, free of anti-competitive restraints.
As the exclusive marketer for Regulated Products exported from Qatar, Muntajat will have involvement with the Producing Entities, whose shareholders are Qatar Petroleum and other major International Oil and Gas Companies, all of which may be competitors of Muntajat. Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees must be aware that direct and indirect relationships with actual or potential competitors raise antitrust sensitivities and must strictly adhere, both in the context of relationships with these entities and in connection with independent actions, to the rules, procedures and guidance set forth in this Code. Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees therefore must, at all times, act in compliance with all applicable competition/antitrust laws.
The competition/antitrust laws are extremely context dependent. This means that conduct otherwise prohibited or problematic can be permissible if it can be demonstrated that it is, in fact, beneﬁcial to free markets or will promote open competition (2). However, given the serious consequence of infringing these laws, legal advice should be sought before any such assumption is made.
Under competition/antitrust laws, companies may not enter into formal or informal agreements with others, which restrict the functioning of the competitive market, such as price ﬁxing or dividing clients or territories. Illegally monopolising or attempting   to   monopolise   an   industry   or
unlawfully abusing a dominant position also may constitute a violation of competition laws, even though there may not be acting jointly with other companies.
Consequences of Violation of Competition Laws and Regulations
Competition law violations have very severe consequences. The companies involved can face material ﬁnes, whilst criminal prosecution of individuals may result in personal ﬁnes and/or imprisonment. In addition, violations may also result in extremely costly litigation and damages.
Dealing with Competitors (Including Producing Entities and their Shareholders)
Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees shall not, directly or indirectly, disclose to, seek from or exchange with competitors or potential competitors any commercially sensitive information. They shall not discuss or reach any agreement or “understanding” with any competitors or potential competitors, or otherwise participate in the following or any other matters that might unlawfully restrict or impede the orderly operation of markets or functioning of the competitive system:
PRICES - selling prices, price levels or trends, future price changes or implementation, or any terms of sale (e.g., discounts, promotions, rebates, etc.).
COSTS - including any speciﬁc elements of past, present or future costs to Muntajat, a supplier or any competitor.
VOLUMES - of goods or services provided by suppliers and/or sold to customers.
SALES - (or refusals to sell) to speciﬁc customers (i.e., any division or allocation of customers among competitors or any group boycott of a customer or a potential customer).
(2.) Always keep in mind that the prime purpose of this section of the Code is the protection of competition and the free operation of markets. The prohibitions and proscriptions of problematic conduct identiﬁed in this section may, in some particular circumstances, be shown to be inappropriate, based on demonstration that the conduct or action in question would actually be “pro-competitive” or beneﬁcial to competition. The application of this exception to the general rules of this section is a matter requiring careful consideration and review by counsel.
RESTRICTION ON SELLING - of particular products, product categories or services or in speciﬁc geographical areas.
PURCHASES - (or refusals to purchase) from any   speciﬁc   supplier   (e.g.,   any   group boycott of a supplier or potential supplier). The    adoption    by  any company of CONTROLS OR LIMITATIONS on products, services, markets or business methods or practices.

Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees must understand that an agreement or understanding needs not be in writing to constitute an antitrust violation. An agreement or understanding can be inferred from circumstantial evidence, i.e., a competitor meeting followed by an across the board price increase.
Dealing with Suppliers
Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees shall not allow a supplier or supplier’s shareholders to:
Dictate or control RESALE PRICES of the supplier’s products.
Restrict or inﬂuence the TERRITORY into which or the CUSTOMERS to whom Muntajat sells on the products.
Restrict Muntajat from marketing/selling those COMPETING PRODUCTS.
Dealing with Customers
When dealing with customers, Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees shall not:
Dictate prices at which the customer will resell the products (RESALE PRICE MAINTENANCE).
Apply any  TERRITORIAL or END USE CUSTOMER      RESTRICTION      on      the
customer, i.e., seek to restrict or inﬂuence where and to whom the customer sells the products - either directly or indirectly (e.g., by creating incentives which inﬂuence customers’ conduct to similar effect).
Apply any form of COERCION in the marketing of its products including forcing the sale of a second or “tied” product, forcing a customer to purchase all of its supply through Muntajat, or forcing a customer to deal exclusively with Muntajat. Offer a customer prices, terms or promotional allowances services that amount  to  MORE  FAVOURABLE TERMS
than those offered to competing customers absent a legitimate, legally sufﬁcient justiﬁcation.
Government Technical Committee Consultations and Industry Organisation Meetings Between Competitors
In Technical Committee Consultations, industry association or similar meetings, involving competitors, communications shall at all times be strictly limited to those required for the legitimate purpose of the meeting. In particular, Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees may discuss and/or develop common approaches to:
New regulations, terms and conditions or legislation.
Participation in industry-wide litigation or presentations to judicial and regulatory bodies.
Trends in public opinion (e.g., product concerns, industry image, etc.).
Institutional advertising, (i.e., advertising the merits of the industry’s products and services as a whole).
Representation of the industry organisation as participant or observer.
Information about the industry that is of a general nature.
Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees may develop common standards for products and services, but only in the context of industry recommendations to, or in response to requests from regulatory bodies in connection with the adoption of such standards as legal requirements.
Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees SHALL NOT do the following at Technical Committee Consultations, industry organisation or similar meetings among competitors:
Exchange business statistics.
Discuss or agree upon the elimination of existing competitors or the impact new entrants would have on competition.
Exchange competitive information that results in members not determining their individual business policies on their own.
Competition Guidance
There may be circumstances in which Muntajat ofﬁcers or employees are uncertain as to the appropriate course of action. In these situations appropriate advice should be sought prior to commencement of the conduct or action in question.
Price or Market Manipulation, Sensitive Information
Muntajat’s legal mandate establishes it as a Trading Company and requires it to operate in conformity with the Articles of Association. The mandate and model establish Muntajat as the exclusive marketer of all Regulated Products produced in Qatar. The entities producing the Regulated Products include either directly or through joint venture shareholdings subsidiaries of International Oil and Gas Companies who themselves may market same products in competition with Muntajat. Certain of the Regulated Products may be traded on Exchanges. Though Muntajat may not take speculative commercial risk in paper or physical markets with Qatari or non-Qatari product, selected and controlled use of appropriate hedge instruments to support physical deliveries of Qatari exports may be employed to mitigate risk and exposure.
In this context, Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees must avoid participation or the appearance of participation in any action, transaction or collaboration for the purpose of impairing, obstructing or defeating normal market functioning. Care should be exercised to:
Avoid any appearance or actuality of improper collaboration, collusion or information sharing for the purpose of ﬁxing prices or manipulating markets.
Avoid any appearance or actuality of independent action to manipulate prices or markets in violation of applicable legal requirements.
Assure the protection of conﬁdential, proprietary or sensitive information that may impact markets or prices.
Insure that the information made available to the public is accurate, complete and properly disseminated (preferential release of commercially sensitive or valuable information is  in  most cases problematic and shall be avoided unless fully justiﬁed by circumstances and protected by procedures).
Assure that all product transactions entered into have valid business purposes and do not present any appearance of improper efforts to inﬂuence product prices or market behaviour.
Any practices which have the effect of either creating the false impression that certain market activity is occurring when in fact such activity is unrelated to actual supply and demand, or any tampering, including physical or economic withholding of supply, may be considered manipulative and should not be engaged in unless fully justiﬁed by legitimate business and market considerations.
Bribes and Kickbacks
Bribes and kickbacks are not appropriate business behaviour and are not allowed.
Muntajat does not give or receive, whether directly or through another party, bribes or other improper advantages for business or ﬁnancial gain. No employee may offer, give or receive any gift or payment, which is, or may be seen as being, a bribe. Any demand for, or offer of a bribe, must be rejected immediately and reported.
Facilitation Payments
Muntajat recognises that certain facilitation payments, which could occur outside of the State of Qatar, cannot be avoided completely or immediately, however procedures to limit their use to small payments for routine actions shall be in place. Appropriate actions will be taken to fully eliminate all such payments within a reasonable timeframe.
Agents and Intermediaries
Muntajat shall request all agents and other intermediaries to abide by and conduct their activities on its behalf in a manner, which is fully compliant with this policy. The contracts established with agents shall provide for - an explicit condition not to pay bribes of any sort or make facilitation payments and - appropriate provisions to terminate agreements when any breach occurs. Where services for routine administrative tasks in respect of obtaining permits and expediting customs formalities and similar services are retained under contracts, full details shall be on record of the names, terms of employment and payments to those agents. All records shall be available for inspection  by auditors and if and when required by relevant authorities.
Political Contributions and Sponsorships
Muntajat does not make contributions to political activities, parties, party ofﬁcials or candidates.
Charitable Contributions and Sponsorships
When charitable contributions are made or sponsorships established, due care shall be taken to ensure that these are not used in a manner which would disguise any form of bribery or could be seen to do so.
Financial Records and Auditing
Supporting documents and accounting records must accurately describe and reﬂect the nature of the underlying transactions. No undisclosed or unrecorded account, fund or asset will be established or maintained.  All records shall be made available for inspection by Auditors and / or any other relevant body.
9. Gifts and Entertainment
In certain circumstances it may be customary or appropriate to exchange gifts and entertainment with customers, suppliers, and other business relationships. When receiving or giving gifts, hospitality and entertainment by Muntajat ofﬁcers and employees, the objectives, intentions and values of such arrangements shall be assessed within these guidelines and undertaken within acceptable practices. In general all such arrangements shall be limited to reasonable and bona expenditures and not improperly affect, or might be seen to improperly affect, the outcome of a business undertaking.
Guidelines
Business relationships shall be on an arm’s length basis and avoid excessive or lavish gifts or events that may give the appearance of undue. Employees may give or accept customary business amenities, such as meals and entertainment, provided the expenses involved are kept at a reasonable level and are not prohibited by known business relations’ own practices.
Receiving Gifts
Gifts of a commercial or promotional nature are generally acceptable only if their value does not exceed QR 500. The following, irrespective of their value, are allowed to the extent they are not listed in the below section “Not Allowed”:
(i) Promotional premiums and discounts offered by airlines, hotels, car rental agencies and restaurants if they are based upon membership in bonus programs that are offered to travellers generally.
(ii)    Gifts of the same type distributed at events to all attendees, e.g., inaugurations and signing ceremonies.
(iii)   Gifts that are given to attendees of events through a process governed by chance, e.g. an attendee gives his business card to or is given a number by an event organiser or company and the attendee is randomly selected to receive a gift through a lottery.
Not Allowed:
Regardless of its value, any form of a gift that obligates an employee to act in a particular manner with regard to a business decision. This is considered to be a bribe.
Soliciting a gift. Gifts in cash.
If such gifts are received, the respective supplier or client may be reminded of Muntajat’s policy if this would not result in an awkward business situation.
Market Value of Gift
If a recipient is not sure of the value of an item, the employee shall if possible attempt to determine the fair market value. As a general rule, if an employee is unable to determine that fair market value is within the permitted range or if any doubt exists about whether the gift is excessive in value, the item shall be turned over to the General Counsel to determine its value. If the value is greater than the permitted threshold, the General Counsel shall hold the gift in trust on behalf of the Ethics and Compliance Committee. The Ethics and Compliance Committee will approve what can be done with the gift, which may include distribution at general staff meetings, auction it at Muntajat with proceeds given to a charitable organisation, or directly given to a charitable organisation.
Clariﬁcations and Reporting
In the event that, when receiving gifts or gratuities, this could be perceived to be a conﬂict of interest, even if the employees do not believe this would constitute a breach of the guidelines, they shall inform their manager. Whenever unsure about the appropriate conduct in any particular circumstance, employees shall discuss this  with the Law Department.
9.  Gifts and Entertainment (Continued)
Giving Gifts And Gratuities
Similar rules, as for receiving gifts apply to the giving of gifts, and due consideration shall be given to business relations’ own rules in respect of receiving gifts and entertainment. Employees shall:
Take care to avoid giving gifts that are intended to be innocent but may be seen to be a bribe.
Inform their managers and obtain approval when considering giving gifts or gratitude and speciﬁcally when unsure about the appropriate conduct.
Under this Gift and Entertainment Section, the CEO may approve giving gifts and business amenities of higher value, provided the gifts and business amenities are not prohibited by law or known business relations’ own practices.
10. Money Laundering
Muntajat will adopt and follow relevant international standards and not condone, facilitate or support money laundering. All ofﬁcers and staff will comply with all applicable laws that prohibit money laundering. Before entering  into contractual arrangements with new counterparties and other relationships as well as when carrying out occasional transactions, a comprehensive assessment will be made.
Background
Money laundering is the process by which individuals or entities try to conceal illicit funds, or otherwise make these funds look legitimate.
Trade-based money laundering is deﬁned as the process of disguising illicit proceeds and moving funds through trade transactions. This can be achieved amongst others, through the misrepresentation of price, quantity or quality of imports or exports. Trade-based money laundering techniques are frequently used in combination with other money laundering techniques to further obscure the money trail.
Most countries around the world have laws against money laundering which prohibit the acceptance or processing of the proceeds of criminal activities.
In order to ensure that business relationships are only entered into with counter parties that apply similar standards and integrity as Muntajat, ofﬁcers and employees shall apply rigorous screening procedures before counterparties are considered for commercial undertakings or other relationships.
Key Activities:
Assess the integrity of potential counterparties and other business relationships.
Communicate with counterparties the expectations in respect of compliance with Muntajat standards.
Continue to monitor counterparties’ business practices and transactions throughout the course of the relationship to ensure that the transactions being conducted are consistent with the counterparties’ business, including when necessary, to understand the source of funds.
When suspicions arise in respect of the integrity of a counterparty’s business dealings or intent, Legal Counsel and the Ethics and Compliance Ofﬁcer shall be consulted in order to agree on the appropriate response and measures merited under the speciﬁc circumstances, including the possibility of terminating the relationship and reporting to the relevant authorities.
References
The Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF) is an inter-governmental body founded in 1989 by the G8. The purpose of the FATF is to develop policies to combat money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. The FATF currently has 33 members, comprising 31 member countries and territories and 2 regional organisations, amongst them the GCC.
The Middle East and North Africa Financial Action Task Force (MENAFATF) is the regional initiative of promoting and implementing international standards to counter money laundering and ﬁnancing terrorism in the region.
Note: Detailed guidance is provided in “Counterparty Due Diligence and Record Keeping”.
11. Business Communications
Muntajat and the State of Qatar shall be represented in the best and most professional manner in all internal and external communications all while preserving the conﬁdentiality of Muntajat information.
Communication Format for Business Purposes
A written format shall be preferred to ensure proof and safekeeping. Written communications must contain a clear identiﬁcation of Muntajat, its address and the individuals’ contact details.
Making Commitments
Speciﬁc authorisations shall be established for employees who can enter into commitments.
E-mail
E-mail can be used to communicate internally and with third parties for general information. E-mail should not be used for time critical business communications with counterparties.
Employees shall exercise due care, caution and etiquette in sending an e-mail message; these shall not contain material that is racist, sexist, pornographic, offensive, threatening, abusive, defamatory, fraudulent, or otherwise inappropriate.
In e-mail communications, Muntajat Logo and the individuals’ contact details shall be contained in the footer. All e-mail messages shall contain the following disclaimer:
If you have received this e-mail by mistake, please e-mail the sender by replying to this message, and delete the original and all copies. This message is conﬁdential and may be legally privileged and is intended solely for the addressee. Access to this message by another person is not permitted so if you are not the intended recipient, any disclosure, copying, distribution or action taken or omitted to be taken in reliance on it, is not allowed and may be  illegal.
Telephone
In order to have records of all trades that are conducted by telephone, the speciﬁc telephone lines will be equipped with recording devices and all negotiations shall be recorded.
Fax
Fax is the recommended method for communications that require delivery (and action) within twenty-four hours, e.g. business critical communications.
Instant Messaging (IM)
IM can be used to communicate internally and with third parties for general information, indications, and discussions about deals.  IM cannot be used to conclude commercial transactions.
Telex
Due to its high cost and declining reliability, the use of telex should be restricted to essential circumstances.
Internet
Downloading data or accessing information from the Internet that is unprofessional or inappropriate for business use is not permitted.
Permitted Personal Use
Information and communication systems, including e-mail and connections to the Internet, shall primarily be used for appropriate business purposes but limited personal use is permitted.
Monitoring The Use of E-mail and Internet
All employee e-mail and Internet usage may be the subject to monitoring without notice.
11. Business Communications (Continued)
Conﬁdentiality and Classiﬁcation of Communications and Documents
Unclassiﬁed:  Information  that  may  be  shared without restrictions.
Internal Use Only: Information that can be freely shared with employees, but not with third parties.
Conﬁdential: Information that should be shared with selected employees only.
Personnel Private: Staff information that should be shared with selected employees only.
Classiﬁed: Information that should only be made available on a strict need-to-know basis.
All ofﬁcers and employees shall take due care to protect Muntajat assets and ensure their efﬁcient use for their intended business purposes.
Muntajat Assets
Assets comprise of, property, company funds, proprietary information as well as time.
Use of Muntajat Assets
All ofﬁcers and employees are responsible for ensuring that Muntajat assets are not misused or wasted and shall:
Devote the necessary time to their work in order to fulﬁl the job responsibilities.
Not perform non-Muntajat related work or solicit personal business on Muntajat premises or while working on Muntajat time.
Not use any Muntajat assets for personal beneﬁt and activities except when speciﬁcally authorised for  limited, occasional or incidental personal use.
Not remove, loan, alter or destroy Muntajat property without proper authorisation.
Use corporate credit cards only for business purposes.
Protection of Physical Assets
All assets are of great value to Muntajat, thus their protection is critical for achieving Muntajat business objectives. All employees are personally responsible for protecting any property entrusted to them directly as well as taking due care to protect Muntajat assets in general. They shall be alert to situations or incidents that can lead to the loss, misuse or theft of Muntajat property.
Protection of Information Resources and Infrastructure
Computer hardware, LAN/WAN infrastructure, ERP platform, business software applications and telecommunication systems are key assets. They are intended for business use only. All information processed, transmitted or stored within these assets belongs to Muntajat.
 All employees are responsible for following relevant security policies and protecting these resources from:
Unauthorised access. Fraudulent  manipulation. Alteration.
Exposure to viruses.
Theft, damage or destruction. Unauthorised disclosure or use.
Occasional and reasonable personal use is permitted and will be monitored to ensure amongst others that, it does not interfere with employees’ duties, is not related to a personal business or illegal activity and that no signiﬁcant additional costs are incurred.
Protected Muntajat Proprietary Information
The laws allow Muntajat to protect proprietary information from the use by outsiders. It is the obligation of all employees to:
Protect Muntajat proprietary information from unauthorised disclosure or distribution.
Use proprietary information only in connection with Muntajat business.
Proprietary information is related to:
Information used in trading activities including pricing, marketing and customer strategies.
Marketing plans.
Sales, marketing and other corporate databases.
Software bought or developed in-house.
Third Party Information and Rights
All employees shall respect the property rights of third parties, and while conducting Muntajat business activities shall:
Not install unlicensed software on Muntajat computers and networks.
Not use copyrighted materials without speciﬁc permission from the copyright owner.
Only copy documents and materials which are not copyrighted or after having obtained speciﬁc permission to do so.
Not use any conﬁdential information, including computer records, from prior employers.
Muntajat is committed to diversity and inclusiveness in its work environment where mutual trust and respect is fostered, employees and others are treated fairly and with dignity, where recruitment is based on the qualiﬁcations and abilities needed for the work to be performed, and in compliance with the requirements for hiring Qatari Nationals.
Guiding Principles
The guiding principles for all ofﬁcers and employees when dealing with each other as well as with, contractors, suppliers, customers or others are:
Employees who believe they have been subject to harassment should report the issue immediately through HR to the Ethics and Compliance Committee. Employees who observe others being subject to harassment should also report the issue immediately through the same channels.
Respect individual freedoms and human rights.
Do not discriminate against anyone and treat all persons fairly regardless of their race, colour, national origin, sex, marital status, age, religion, political belief, physical handicap or disability, or status.
Do not engage in unwelcome sexual advances or sexual harassment.
Do not intimidate or humiliate other people. Do not use inappropriate language or verbal abuse.
14. Protection of Privacy of Personal Data
Muntajat will acquire and retain employee personal data only when it is required for the effective operations of Muntajat or when required by law and to adequately protect the conﬁdentiality of personal data and information.
Access and Disclosure
Access to personal data shall be restricted to ofﬁcers and employees who have speciﬁc authorisation and a clear business need for that information.
Unless subject to compulsory disclosure by authorities as part of a formal criminal investigation, personal data shall not be disclosed to anyone outside Muntajat without speciﬁc authorisation by the Executive Director for HR, Legal Counsel and the written permission of the individual concerned. In all events the individual shall be informed of the information being disclosed and purpose for which it is disclosed.
Ofﬁcers and employees who have access to personal employee data shall only use it for the purpose for which it was obtained and apply the highest standards of conﬁdentiality when using it.
All employees shall have the right to view the entire content of their personnel ﬁle maintained by the company.
Security
Employee data will be kept in a secured and access restricted environment, whilst all electronically held data will be subject to strict IT security processes and procedures.
Retention
Personal data shall not be retained longer than required by law or required for a clear business reason, in the latter case speciﬁc authorisation is required.
15. Drugs and Alcohol
Muntajat is committed to comply with the law and related regulations in respect of possession and use of illegal drugs and alcohol.
Policy
It is forbidden to possess or consume illegal drugs or alcohol or misuse legitimate or controlled drugs while working in Muntajat premises or any other work related location or installation.
As a condition of continued employment with Muntajat, employees must comply with all applicable substance abuse policies, guidelines and/or procedures.
These restrictions are established to comply with the law and other applicable regulations as well as for the well-being and productivity of Muntajat and its employees.
16. Health, Safety and Environment
Muntajat, its ofﬁcers and employees, shall conduct its business in a manner that protects the safety of employees, others involved in its operations, customers, the public, and the environment. This policy seeks to protect the environment and prevent all accidents and injuries through active participation of every employee.
Muntajat Will:
Establish management systems, provide training and conduct operations in a manner that safeguards people, property and the environment.
Ensure management actively supports and participates in the implementation, measurement, review and improvement of systems, policies, procedures, standards and performance at all levels of the organisation.
Develop performance goals and communicate them to all employees. Develop and maintain the required skills and competences to successfully achieve established goals.
Identify and effectively manage principle risks associated with the operational activities of the company.
Require reporting of all HSE incidents to management in writing; comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and apply responsible standards where laws and regulations do not exist.
Stress to all employees, contractors, and others working on its behalf, their responsibility and accountability for safe performance on the job and encourage safe behaviour off the job.
Favour the selection of its service providers and customers on the basis of their ability to comply with its HSE policy.
Provide guidelines and requirements for safe and effective third party services management.
Provide feedback on third party performance to encourage continuous improvement of service provided and ensure that deﬁciencies are corrected. Undertake appropriate reviews and evaluations of its operations
17. Clariﬁcations, Reporting, Complaints and Other Issues
Clariﬁcations
If an employee has any doubt in respect of the application or interpretation of the Code of Conduct he shall in ﬁrst instance consult with their line manager or Legal Counsel as appropriate.
Reporting of Suspected Breaches
Employees shall report suspected breaches of this Code of Conduct, other Muntajat Policies, Laws and Regulations, and any knowledge of untruthful or inaccurate records, statements or transactions that do not serve a legitimate commercial business purpose.
Appropriate channels for reporting suspected breaches will be established ensuring that any person reporting a suspect circumstance or case should have no concern for potential retaliation. Employees are required to fully co-operate with internal investigations of suspected breaches  of this policy. Anyone involved directly or indirectly in any retaliatory act or intimidation will be subject to sanctions that reﬂect the severity of such act and behaviour.
Disciplinary Measures
Sanctions for breaches of this Code of Conduct, other Muntajat Policies and of Laws and Regulations shall be considered and assessed by the Ethics and Compliance Committee. The considerations and application of sanctions will be according to the established Muntajat disciplinary procedures, and may include dismissal.
Where required by law, related information will be made available to the relevant Authorities and the individual(s) involved may have personal liability under law for their actions.
Compliance
Management and employees shall be diligent in selecting and monitoring contractors, agents and other third parties.
The Ethics and Compliance Committee shall ensure compliance with this Code of Conduct, Policies, and Laws and Regulations.
Resources shall be made available for implementing the Code of Conduct and establishing and maintaining proper systems of control and reporting procedures.
Annual Compliance Assurance Declaration
All ofﬁcers and persons in the employment of Muntajat shall provide written assurance of compliance with or any deviation to the Code of Conduct, Policies, and Laws and Regulations, this in the format, content and date as from time to time will be established by the Ethics and Compliance Committee.
The declaration shall be conﬁdential and shall only be disclosed and discussed with relevant managers on a “need-to-know” basis.
18. Appendices
Appendix I
Books & Records
Deﬁnition
Record  A Record is information which is created or received as evidence of a business transaction or activity and is required for legal, tax, regulatory or accounting purposes.
Appendix II
Conﬂict of Interest
Deﬁnitions
Conﬂict of Interest This exists when a person’s personal interests interfere in any manner with the interests of Muntajat.
Companies that Enter into Contracts with Supply or Render Services to Muntajat  Relate to customers, contractors and any form of service providers to Muntajat.
Direct Interest As a shareholder or partner in the entity or any afﬁliated company of such entity.
Indirect Interest   Directorship, trustee, agent, advisory role or any beneﬁciary relationship to the entity, for instance as important supplier or contractor to the entity.
Family Members  Spouse, children, parents, parents–in-law, brothers and sisters.
Appendix III
Competition / Antitrust Laws Deﬁnitions and Concepts
Anti-Competitive Agreements and Activities Between Competitors
Price Fixing    Agreement between competitors in respect of the prices they will charge to customers or pay to suppliers for goods and services.
Market sharing / Allocation Agreement between competitors to divide sales territories or allocate customers (e.g. not compete).
Restricting Output  Agreement between competitors to restrict production or output or close production facilities.
Collective Boycotts Agreement between competitors not to deal with another person or company.
 Anti-Competitive Agreements With Suppliers / Customers
Territorial or End Use Customer Restriction Supplier and customer agree that customers will not sell on the products in certain territories or to certain customers or customer groups.
Tie-In Sales    The sale of one product to a customer on condition that such customer must purchase a second product, which it may not want to or can buy elsewhere under better terms.
Re-Sale
Price Maintenance   Agreement between a supplier and a re-seller that ﬁxes the minimum re-sale price of the product(s).
Monopoly
Dominance   The ability to act independently of the normal competitive constraints imposed by customers and competitors - a position of signiﬁcant economic power in a market.
Abuse   Conduct which exploits customers, e.g. excessive pricing, discrimination in terms offered without objective justiﬁcation OR Conduct which excludes competitors from the market, e.g. predatory pricing, discount strategies aimed at market foreclosure.
18. Appendices (Continued)
Appendix IV
Bribery, Corruption and Improper Payments
Deﬁnitions
Bribery Is the offering, promising, giving or accepting of any undue pecuniary or other advantage to or by: a public ofﬁcial, at national, local or international level, a political party, party ofﬁcial or candidate, and a director, ofﬁcer, employee or agent of a private enterprise in order to obtain or retain a business or other improper advantage.
Extortion or Solicitation   Is the demanding of a bribe, whether or not combined with a threat if the demand is refused. “Bribery” as used in the policy shall include extortion.
Kickbacks   Consist of payment in cash or in kind, including goods, services, the use of another company’s property, or forgiving any sort of obligation provided to a customer or supplier for the purpose of improperly obtaining or rewarding favourable treatment in connection with a sale or purchase.
Agents  This refers to agents, subcontractors, consultants and other third parties.
Facilitation Payments   Small payments which are made to secure or expedite the performance of a routine or necessary action to which the payer has legal or other entitlement.
Appendix V
Gifts and Entertainment
Deﬁnitions
Gifts and Entertainment
Anything of value, not only material goods, but also services, promotional premiums and discounts, such as:
Loans
Favourable terms on any product or service Services
Prises Transportation
Use of another company’s assets Use of vacation facilities
Stocks or other securities Participation in stock offerings Home improvements
Tickets
Gift certiﬁcates.
18. Appendices (Continued)
Further Guidance and Examples
In addition to applying the guidelines one shall ask the following questions to further assist in determining whether a gift or entertainment is appropriate:
Is the intent only to build a business relationship or offer normal courtesy? Or is it to inﬂuence the recipient’s objectivity in making a business decision?
Allowed Not Allowed
Gifts
Gifts of nominal value, such as pens, calendars or small promotional items. 
Gifts
Gifts with a value above policy limit.
Entertainment
Occasional attendance at ordinary sports, theatre and other cultural events. An invitation to an entertainment or sporting event such as a golf-tournament may be appropriate if it demonstrably helps to build or maintain a business relationship.    
Entertainment
To accept an invitation to attend certain events, where travel accommodation and other expenses are paid by a customer, supplier or business relation.
Giving Gifts
Plaques, awards and prises that are part of ofﬁcial Muntajat initiatives and relationship programs.
Giving Gifts
Free  access  to  or  use  of  Muntajat  resources, assets, excess goods or materials.
National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Ukraine
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

CODE OF ETHICS
FOR A SCIENTIST IN UKRAINE

CODE OF ETHICS FOR A SCIENTIST IN UKRAINE
1. GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1.1. Ethics in science is based on fundamental values, norms and principles and
characterizes moral behavior of scientists, their responsibility for colleagues and
the society.
1.2. Scientists should be guided in their work by established standards of good
practice. General provisions of such standards are laid down in this Code.
1.3. Scientists shall bear moral responsibility for the consequences of their activity,
as they could affect the development of the mankind, for the preservation of the
nature.spiritual and cultural heritage. Scientists should counteract obtaining results
which contravene principles of humanism, by:
- refusal from collaboration;
- preventing the society from possible negative consequences, when scientific
achievements are used for anti-humanitarian purposes;
- informing the society, scientific society in particular, on possible negative
consequences in the use of scientific achievements and on the need to prevent
them.
1.4. The scientist should adhere to an equality principle in his/her activity. Any
discrimination on the basis of gender, races, political and religious sights or
cultural and social status is incompatible with this principle. The science should be
not politized.
1.5. Scientists should oppose conformism in the scientific community, take an
active part in attestation of the scientific personnel, counteract graduating scientific
degrees and titles of such works, which do not correspond to modern achievements
of the world science or when a work is done with violations of ethical norms; they
should actively disclose facts of plagiarism and other types of piracy.
1.6. Scientists should oppose pseudo-science and dissemination of its statements
and recommendations in the society.
1.7. Scientists should concentrate their efforts on further use of the obtained
knowledge for the welfare of the mankind, preservation of the environment and for
resource saving.
4
1.8. Freedom in science is, first of all, freedom in determining scientific
directions, related to studies, concepts, hypothesis, paradigms, problems and
methods of their solving, and, most of all, freedom of thinking and freedom of
discussing. Freedom in the scientific work should be based on high professional
qualities. Scientists should defense freedom of the scientific opinion, condemn the
censorship in the scientific work and any attempt to monopolize these or those
directions in the science.
1.9. A scientist is responsible for situations occurred, when there can be a danger
for a man, society or nature, caused due to the use of new unverified scientific
knowledge.
1.10. A scientist shall not undertake any actions that may cause any harm to
professional reputation of another scientist. However, in the case of
incontrovertible proof of unethical behavior or nonprofessional actions of a
scientist, the scientific community should assess them properly in the open
unprejudiced discussion.
1.11. All those who are involved in science, should take every efforts to training
and teaching young scientists, for them to be patriots of science and of their
country. So, training the scientific generation should not be limited to passing
technical skills, necessary to conducting studies. The training should be based on
main ethical scientific standards and norms. Scientific workers and teachers should
be an example of morals for young scientists in their attitude to science and an
author’s right.
2. SCIENTIST AS A RESEARCHER
2.1. Scientists should remember that a scientific study is a process of obtaining
new knowledge. A scientist should be an erudite and competent person, able to
make a critical analysis of the most actual scientific knowledge. The planning and
conduction of scientific researches are possible only on the basis of deep
knowledge on achievements of the world science in the branch concerned.
5
2.2. Scientists should search for ways of the most reasonable, from the point of
view of validity and economic propriety, for solving the studied problems.
Scientists should present objectively conclusions on the completed studies,
irrespective of a customer’s expectations.
2.3. Scientists should provide unstained fairness and transparency at all stages of
the scientific study and consider inadmissible demonstration of fraud, fabrication
of the false data, in particular, piracy and plagiary. It is inadmissible when
regulating authorities intentionally influence the character of the data, obtained as a
result of studies, and conclusions. Scientists support only the objective truth.
2.4. Scientists should provide for necessary protection of the intellectual property.
2.5. Scientists should promote using the results of their work in as full extent as
possible in the interests of the society, protection of the environment, cultural and
historical heritage.
2.6. Scientific studies should not in any case touch dignity or go against human
rights. In medical and biological researches scientists should keep to principles of
bioethics.
2.7. A scientific study should be conducted so as not to do any harm to the
environment. In the case if it is impossible to avoid causing such harm, the effect
should be minimized and the environment, after completion of the study, should be
restored to the previous state.
3. SCIENTIST AS AN AUTHOR
3.1. Aspiration of a scientist for knowledge and desire to enrich the science with
new data is the principle motivation of the scientist’s activity. In this, the highest
award for a scientist is to comprehend the truth and to get recognition of the
scientific community. Scientists have right and duty to defense their scientific
priority. At the same time, publication of inaccurate and unconvincing scientific
results as well as publications in not scientific issues, aiming to reach priority, is
inadmissible.
6
3.2. Scientists recognize international and national legal norms related to a
copyright. Scientists can use information from any publications, but should include
references and make a distinct border between their own data and the results of
other scientists. When loaning any photos, figures, designs, tables, schemes, etc.
for personal publications it is necessary, in accordance with existing regulations, to
receive a permission of an author or a publishing house.
3.3. When publishing the results of studies, conducted by a group of scientists, all
those who take part in the work, should be mentioned as authors of the work. If
necessary their personal contribution to the work should be underlined. Only a real
contribution into a scientific work can be considered as a criterion of the
authorship. Assignment of the authorship on a scientific work to another person,
acceptance of the authorship or co-authorship and, in particular, extortion, are
inadmissible.
3.4. Scientists should not re-publish their scientific papers in order to raise their
quantity. When, for the sake of promoting scientific achievements, it is advisable
to publish the same paper in different journals, editors of the latter shall be
informed that it appears in other publications.
3.5. Scientists should be objective in the assessment of personal achievements.
Mass-media, radio and TV can be used for promoting scientific achievements, but
not for personal purposes. When preparing a publication a scientist follows
requirements of the publisher; however it is advisable not to mention scientific
degrees and status. Such kind of information can be given in the note.
4. SCIENTIST AS A HEAD
4.1. For a scientific work scientists surround themselves by collaborators, basing
only on unprejudiced assessment of their intellectual, ethical and personal
characteristics. Scientists should counteract all demonstration of protectionism,
corrupt practice and discrimination.
4.2. Scientists organize their relations with collaborators on the principles of
equity, goodwill and support to their trainees and estimate each of them
7
objectively. As the head they should promote professional growth for their
subordinates in accordance with their qualification and attitude to work.
4.3. Scientists do not set up execution of their tasks on their collaborators.
4.4. A scientist, as a head should, substantiate, but not impose his/her scientific
thinking on members of the collective.
4.5. Scientists should undertake every effort for creation of good atmosphere in the
collective.
5. SCIENTIST AS A TEACHER
5.1. Scientists should respect their trainees and their free and critical thinking.
5.2. Scientists should not only pass over significant scientific information to the
trainees, but, also, promote development of their social position.
5.3. Scientists should not prevent scientific contacts of their students with other
scientists and scientific institutions. Scientists should respect their right to free
associations, self-administration and membership in academic organizations, listen
to opinions of the student’s community, regarding forms and methods of training.
5.4. Scientists should conduct training interestingly, acceptable for a variety of
trainees. They should make sure of the proper provision of laboratories and
libraries. The training schedule should be appropriate for trainees and studies
should strictly follow the schedule. The content of lectures should reflect recent
achievements of the world science and not be followed by pressing of the
preconceived opinion.
5.5. Scientists should be objective to their trainees, avoiding unethical relations
between a trainer and trainees.
5.6. A scientist should understand that he/she should be an example of higher
intelligence and follow traditions of prominent Ukrainian and world scientific
schools.
5.7. Scientists pay particular attention to talented students and involve them in
scientific activity. They should train responsibility in them for the scientific
activity.
8
5.8. Scientists do not disclose private information about their trainees.
5.9. Scientists do not take any payment or other gains directly from their students.
6. SCIENTIST AS A CONSULTANT OR AN EXPERT
6.1. Scientists can be experts only in the sphere of their competence in accordance
with their knowledge and experience.
6.2. Scientists should assess works and scientific achievements of their colleagues
fairly and impartially. Preparation of the objective critical conclusion is a duty for
scientists and they should not evade from it.
6.3. Scientists have personal responsibility for fair and objective assessment of
candidate’s and doctor’s dissertations. When being an opponent in the defense of
dissertation works, a scientist should be unprejudiced.
6.4. When discussing, arguing and expressing critical comments a scientist should
follow principles of equality, actual substantiation and significance. The principle
of equality guarantees equal rights to all participants of the discussion or dispute,
irrespective of scientific degrees and status. The principle of actual substantiation
excludes nonobjective criticism. The principle of significance excludes any
misrepresentation, humiliation or discrediting.
6.5. When doing an expert review a scientist should keep to the principle of
confidentiality.
6.6. When reviewing, preparing and making conclusions a scientist should adhere
to independence and does not fall under influence.
6.7. When electing candidates for studies or for any other purposes a scientist. as
an expert, should assess applicants objectively. Scientists should not give priority
to their trainees, to representatives of their own school. In the case of conflict of
interests scientists should put general interests over personal, corporate and
interests of those who order a study.
9
7. SCIENTIST AS A CITIZEN
7.1. Scientists should devote themselves to searching for new knowledge and its
use for the welfare of the society and nature. Information. which is presented to the
society, should be singificant. Scientists should counteract dissiminatrion of
unproved data and ungrounded recommendations.
7.2. Scientists should promote dissimination of scientific knowledge and
counteract spreading pseudoscientific theories, erroneous concepts and ideas.
7.3. Scientists should publish results of their studies not only in special scientific
editions, but do it in the scientifically popular form as well, so as to make them as
more available as possible for wide social strata.
7.4. Scientists should take an active part in the life of the scientific community and
in the work of collective bodies. And in this, they should act depending, first of all,
on general scientific interests, and only then, on their private interest and that of
their institutions.
7.5. Scientists should not use the authority of the science or their own authority for
advertisement or promotional purposes for personal interest.
7.6. Scientists, who hold governmental or administrative posts, should follow
ethical norms, adopted in the scientific community.
7.7. Scientists, who infringe Code of Ethics, carry a moral responsibility before
scientific community and before the society as a whole.

National Commission for Science and Technology (Africa Group)
Region: African Group
Country: Malawi
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

VALUE OF RESEARCH IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES AND
HUMANITIES
The ultimate goal of research in the social sciences and humanities is to
improve human life in the physical, material, moral, emotional and
intellectual forms. The collection and use of research data in the various
disciplines that fall in the categories of the social sciences and
humanities, therefore, have direct bearings on people. Data are collected
from human research participants, for use by individuals or groups of
individuals, to meet individual or collective needs.
Researchers in the social sciences and humanities, therefore, have
obligations to: their sources of research data, those whose lives will be

affected by the research findings, other interested parties and end-users
of the research data, as well as themselves and their colleagues. Such
obligations raise issues related to values, ethics, professional conduct,
and moral commitment.
The framework provided herein is premised on the values of:
i. service and benefit to humanity,
ii. respect for the rights, worth and dignity of research
participants.
iii. promotion of innovation and creativity in research,
iv. excellence and professionalism,
v. collegiality,
vi. continuous transfer of skills and knowledge,
vii. encouragement of collective participation in matters of human
development, and
viii. transparency and accountability at all levels of the research
continuum.
4.0 ETHICAL PRINCIPLES AND OBLIGATIONS
This framework forms the basis for the ethical design and conduct of
research in the social sciences and humanities.
4.1. Informed Consent
All persons have the right to individual autonomy and self
determination. Some of them are vulnerable in the sense that they have
a compromised autonomy related to decisions about research
participation to a degree that would violate the principle of respect for
persons. Therefore, any individual who is invited to participate in a
research study shall be given an adequate description of the study that
is clear and complete enough for the individual to judge whether she or
he wants to participate. The informed consent process is designed to
provide potential participants with readily understandable information
in an amount and timing appropriate to achieve the participant’s
understanding. Consent shall be obtained from each research
participant who is legally, mentally and physically able. For those that
are not, including minors, permission shall be sought from parents or
legal guardians or any of their legally authorized representatives as the
situation may apply. The following are examples of the exceptional

circumstances under which research can be approved by a research
ethics committee without parental permission;
i. If the research ethics committee determines that a research protocol
is designed for conditions or for a subject population for which
permission is not a reasonable requirement to protect the research
participants (for example, neglected or abused children), provided
an appropriate mechanism for protecting the children who will
participate in the research is adequately substituted, and provided
further that the waiver is not inconsistent with any of the relevant
local laws.
ii. Research on adolescents involving their access to contraceptives; or
research on adolescents that aims at describing sexually transmitted
diseases treatment seeking behaviours, provided the waiver is not
inconsistent with any of the relevant local laws.
4.1.1. Written Consent
Consent shall be in writing unless an NCST -recognized research ethics
review committee finds that written documentation of informed
consent may be waived. Consent forms and other informational
documents like information sheets shall be written in simple language
so as to be easily understood by potential participants and any persons
without technical background in the field. The standard consent form
and/or information sheet must include the following elements which
are considered the most important information to be given out to the
research participants;
Research purpose and procedures: a statement that the study
involves research, an explanation of the purposes of the
research and the expected duration of participation, a
description of procedures to be followed, and identification of
any procedures which are experimental;
Risks and discomforts of the research study: a description of
any reasonably foreseeable risks or discomforts to the research
participants;

Potential benefit of the research study: a description of any
benefits to the research subjects or to others or to the country as
a whole that may reasonably be expected from the research;
Alternative procedures: a disclosure of appropriate alternative
procedures, if any, that might be advantageous to the research
participants;
Provisions for confidentiality: a statement describing the extent
to which confidentiality of records identifying the research
participant will be maintained;
Research related injury: for research involving more than
minimal risk, an explanation as to whether any compensation is
available and if so, what it consists of and how it will be
provided;
Voluntariness in participation and the right to discontinue
participation without penalty: a statement that participation is
voluntary, refusal to participate will involve no penalty or loss
of benefits to which the participant is otherwise entitled, and
the participant may discontinue participation at any time
without penalty or loss of benefits to which the participant is
otherwise entitled.
Contacts for additional information: an explanation of whom
to contact for answers to pertinent questions about the research
and research participants rights, and whom to contact in the
event of the research related injury (i.e. contacts of the principal
investigator and the chair of the research and ethics committee
reviewing and approving a particular study for additional
information on the research and rights of participants,
respectively);
4.1.2. Oral or Verbal Consent
Any NCST-recognized research ethics review committee may allow an
oral or verbal consent in the case of all those that do not read or write or
do not understand the language of the written consent form. However,
the script or information sheet to be read to the potential participants
must be approved by the NCST-recognized research ethics review
committee and be signed for by their parents or legal guardians or any

of the legally authorized representatives. The consent form or
information sheet to be read out shall, however, contain the elements
described in 4.1.1.
4.1.3 Consent for protected sites
For research related to intangible cultural heritage (as per definition
contained in the convention for the safeguarding of the intangible
cultural heritage), heritage sites and graveyards/cemetery,
consent/permission (be of entry) shall be obtained from the relevant
custodians and/or offices or legal representatives.
4.1.4 Use of Language
No consent form or information sheet, whether written or oral, shall
include intimidatory, threatening, or deceptive language through which
the subject or the subject’s authorized representative is made to lose or
waive any of the subject’s legal rights, or releases or appears to release
the investigator or sponsor from liability for negligence or any harmful
consequences originating from participating in the research.
4.1.5 Requirement
The standard requirement is that all participants shall sign in person a
consent document or form or information sheet containing adequate
elements of a consent document. Those who cannot sign, due to
illiteracy, will provide a thumb print under a witness who shall also
sign for witnessing. For those who cannot legally, mentally and
physically give consent, their parents or legal guardians or authorized
legal representatives will be required to sign or thumbprint.
4.1.6 Assent
Researchers shall obtain assent from minors who are capable of
assenting. In determining whether children are capable of assenting, an
ethics review committee and the researchers shall take into account the
ages, maturity and psychological state of the children involved.
However, minors must assent in tandem with parental permission. An
assent needs to be tailored to the level of comprehension of the
prospective participants. A research ethics review committee is granted
wide discretion in determining whether a child is capable of assenting
and can waive the requirement for child assent under the following
circumstances;
If a child is not capable of assent
If the research offers a prospect of direct benefit not available
outside of the research(thus falling under the scope of parental
authority in overriding a child’s desires)
Or given the same conditions under which parental permission
can be waived (as stated above in 4.1)
4.1.7 Consent from Emancipated Minors
Emancipated minors may include those that society may regard as
mature minors by law, those legally married, or students under a
defined Malawian adult age. Assent from such minors may be
regarded as an informed consent.
4.1.8 Protection for Vulnerable Populations
Vulnerable persons are those who have a compromised autonomy
related to decisions about research participation to a degree that would
violate the principle of respect for persons. Researchers to involve such
persons shall be required to obtain extra protections or safeguards for
their safety and welfare. Examples of vulnerable populations include
pregnant women, prisoners, orphans, people living with HIV and
AIDS, refugees, persons with mental disabilities, the illiterate, and
women and men who, in some settings, may have to ask their spouses
before consenting to participate in a research. .
4.2 Privacy and Confidentiality
i. Researchers shall be required to take precautionary measures to
ensure that sensitive research information is not attributed to
specific individuals that provided it and is collected in a
manner that does not invade the privacy of the participants.
ii. Researchers shall respect individuals’ right to privacy.
iii. Researchers shall ensure that sensitive, identifiable information
is collected for research purposes and access to such

information is limited to a well defined group such as the
research team, the research ethics committee or the research
regulatory authority.
4.3 Rights of Participants
i. Research participants have the right to know the benefits and
risks of their participation in a research study
ii. Research participants have the right to withdraw from
participating in a research study without any penalty for their
voluntary withdraw.
iii. Research participants or communities from which research
participants come have the right to feedback from researchers.
4.4 Accountability and Transparency
Researchers shall be committed to research that is fair, honest and
transparent. They shall be accountable to their profession, research
participants, and the wider society, and shall make arrangements to
have their research data preserved for a reasonable period of time for
posterity.
4.5 Obligations to others
Researchers shall promote social relations based on the principle of nonexploitation,
collaboration, and mentorship. They shall strive to
establish working relationships that benefit other researchers and
participants, and have primary ethical obligations to the people they
study. They shall respect the dignity and well-being of all people
involved in their research. Their research shall not unnecessarily
consume the time of participants or make them incur undue loss of
property and income. Research shall not expose research participants to
risks due to their participation in the research.
4.6 Responsibility to the public
Social and humanities research shall be done to benefit society and
groups and individuals within it by making the research appropriately
available to sponsors, students, decision makers, other researchers and
research participants. Above all, researchers shall conduct their work
responsibly and in light of the moral and legal order of the society in
which they practice. They shall be truthful and be responsible for the
factual content of their statements and must consider the wider
implications of the information that they disseminate. They shall make
sure that the information presented is well understood, properly
contextualized and responsibly utilized.
4.7 Responsibility to colleagues and fellow researchers
Social and humanities researchers shall maintain standards and
appropriate professional behaviour that are shared amongst the
professional research community. Without compromising obligations to
funders, employers, subjects or society at large, this requires methods,
procedures and findings to be open to collegial review and
dissemination of findings to the scientific and scholarly community.
Where junior researchers work with their senior colleagues the aims
shall be to: transfer professional skills, mentor, and build capacity in
them.
4.8 Responsibility to students and trainees
Where researchers use students, the following guidelines shall apply:
i. Research and teaching shall be conducted in such a way that
does not discriminate on the basis of gender, marital status,
race, social class, political convictions, religion, ethnicity,
nationality, age or any other criterion irrelevant to academic
performance;
ii. Ensure improvement in teaching and training techniques, and
being available to the needs and interests of the students;
iii. Impress on students the ethical challenges involved in stages of
social and humanities research;
iv. Teachers shall publicly acknowledge student assistance in
research and preparation of their work; and
v. Wherever students are used in the research the aim shall be to
transfer professional skills and to build capacity in them.
4.9 Non-discrimination
Researchers shall avoid discrimination against others on the basis of
sex, race, religion, ethnicity, culture, or other social and human
categories that are not related to their scientific competence and
integrity.
4.10 Avoidance of conflict of interest
Researchers and members serving on research ethics review committees
shall avoid conflict of interests. In this case, conflict of interests shall
include but not limited to:
i. researchers and members of any research ethics review
committee who serve as an investigator on research under
consideration by the same committee;
ii. researchers and members who hold a significant financial
interest in a body that funds or sponsors research or promotes
products or services on which the research is being done;
iii. a member whose spouse or close relative has a research under
review by the committee;
iv. researchers and members who have any special form of relationship
with the sponsor of the research under consideration if such
relationship is likely to influence decision of the committee;
v. any person who receives a bribe or inducement to do research
that compromises objectivity.
Insider dealing shall not be allowed in the research review process, and
award of research grants. In a case where conflict of interest is likely to
occur, a member of the committee or researcher shall be required to
declare the nature of the conflict of interest and provide relevant
information. Such a member shall not participate in the review of a
particular protocol in which such a member has a conflict of interest.
Such a member shall recuse oneself and move out of the meeting room
to allow the committee freely deliberates on the protocol in which a
member has declared conflict of interest. Such a member shall only be
recalled into the meeting room after decision on that protocol had been
made. The declaration and recusal shall have to be properly reflected in
the minutes of that meeting.
4.11 Objectivity
Researchers shall strive to avoid bias or deception in the design of
methods, data analysis, and data interpretation of their research. They
shall serve rather than threaten the interests of society in which they
operate. For this reason they shall be aware of the fact that their
assumptions may have an impact upon society. Hence, their duty is, on
the one hand, to keep an unbiased attitude as far as possible, while, on
the other hand, to acknowledge the tentative and relative character of
the results of their research and not to conceal their own ideological
position(s). No social sciences and humanities assumptions shall be
presented as indisputable truths. Researchers shall need to clear
misconceptions and misinterpretations about their research.
4.12 Integrity
Social science and humanities researchers bear responsibility for the
integrity and reputation of their disciplines of scholarship and of
science in general. Researchers shall not deceive or knowingly
misrepresent (i.e. fabricate evidence or results, falsify, plagiarize), or
attempt to prevent reporting of misconduct in any way, or obstruct the
scientific or scholarly research of others. Researchers shall also allow
others to have access to their research data and other research materials
for purposes of their own work.
4.13 Coercion and Undue Influence
Coercion and undue influence shall not be allowed. Coercion refers to a
situation in which a person to some degree is forced, or at least strongly
pushed, to do something that is not good for him or her to do. Its
interchangeable term is undue influence. If individuals are put in a
position where there is undue influence to participate in research, then
their ability to control their own destiny has been compromised. It shall
be noted that undue influence and inducement amount to coercion.
5.0 AUTONOMOUS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
FRAMEWORK
This framework is of a general application, but academic and other
institutions are encouraged to develop their own frameworks in line
with it. Such institutional frameworks/guidelines shall, however, be
required to be endorsed by the NCST.
6.0 RESEARCH COMMUNICATION
Research communication entails popularization of research results.
Researchers in the social sciences and humanities shall ensure that
scientific knowledge is communicated to a wider audience beyond the
research community. Reporting of research and its results shall be the
responsibility of every researcher and the research institution. The
responsibility may be delegated to either the sponsor or any individual
upon mutual agreement and expressed commitment to publish or
disseminate the results within a specified period.
6.1. Authorship
As a rule, research results shall be published whether they support or
contradict the expected outcome. When publishing, the following
authorship guidelines shall apply:
i. Authorship shall be based on the level of contribution made in
terms of ideas, conceptualization, and actual performance of the
research, analysis and writing of the report or any other
publications based on the research.
ii. Co-authorship and its sequence should not be based on the
status of an individual in the institution or elsewhere.
iii. All other persons not meeting the criteria for authorship but
contributed to the conduct and completion of research or
publication shall be properly acknowledged.
iv. Students shall be listed as principal authors on any multiple
authored publications that considerably originate from their
dissertations.
v. Appropriate acknowledgment shall be given where data or
information from other studies or publication is quoted or
otherwise included.
6.2. Research Dissemination
Researchers bear a special responsibility to convey research results in a
comprehensive and responsible manner. Researchers may disseminate
preliminary results of their research before being peer-reviewed or
published in recognized journals. When such results are being
disseminated through the popular media, great care shall be taken to
ensure that the media people, not specifically trained in social science
and humanities issues and research, are able to understand the
limitations and implications of research results to avoid distortions.
It is incumbent upon research institutions to promote multifaceted and
comprehensive research communication, characterized by high quality
and relevance. Institutions conducting social science and humanities
research shall establish committees responsible for dissemination of
research results to ensure that the results reach end-users. The
committees shall also be charged with the responsibility of publishing
circulars and organizing events for specific dissemination of results.
All funded research shall have a component on dissemination of results.
Institutions shall be required to establish budget lines for dissemination
of research results and organize theme specific conferences or
symposia.
Institutions shall establish research data banks and repositories from
which they shall develop research indicators in the social sciences and
humanities and compile annual inventories of research and to facilitate
availability and access by other users.
7.0 APPROPRIATE RESEARCH ENVIRONMENTS
Researchers shall establish and maintain sound and appropriate
research environments in which research can be conducted. Researchers
shall actively participate in the initiatives and efforts to improve the
quality of research environments in their communities and institutions,
and to promote public involvement in these.
8.0 AFFILIATION AND RESEARCH CLEARANCE
As a matter of policy, it remains a fundamental requirement that all
foreign based researchers intending to conduct research in Malawi
should be affiliated to local research related institutions and
government departments. The affiliating institutions’ role shall be to
aide such researchers to conduct research in Malawi according to the
applicable regulatory requirements.
In considering affiliation, fees and MoUs may be required depending
on procedures and policies of the affiliating local institutions.
Researchers in Civil Society Organisations/NGOs and other related
institutions shall be required of their research to be reviewed and
approved by an NCST authorized research and ethics review
committee.
9.0 FORMAT FOR RESEARCH PROPOSALS
Research proposals/protocols shall be prepared according to the
following general or specific format;
9.1 General Format
This format shall apply where a research and ethics review committee
has not specified a format.
i. Proposal title
ii. Names of investigator(s) and qualifications (their CVs should be
appended)
iii. Institution of affiliation (local and/or international)
iv. Summary
v. Introduction/literature review
vi. Problem Statement/Justification
vii. Main and specific objectives
viii. Methodology/Materials and methods
This should include a description of details of the study
design and methods to be used. The description should
include study site(s)/location(s); study participants; sampling
methods; sample size; data collection instruments; and data
management and analysis methods.
Data collection instruments, where appropriate, must be
translated into the appropriate local language and should be
attached in the annex and be appropriately referred to.
ix. Ethics
This should include a description of strategies and/or
processes that will be followed to guarantee the protection of
the rights and welfare of the research subjects/communities
as required and described under section 4.0, while taking into
cognizance of the nature and design of a particular study.
Consent/assent forms or information sheets in English and in
an appropriately translated local language should be attached
in the annex and be appropriately referred to.
x. Work plan (where appropriate, roles and responsibilities of
collaborators, should be stated clearly)
xi. Expected outcomes of the study
xii. Strategies of dissemination of research results
xiii. Budget
xiv. Declaration of source of funding (if already available or
proposed)
xv. Reference
9.2 Specific Format
i. Some funding agencies may have different requirements which
researchers shall be required to follow in soliciting funding.
ii. In submitting for research and ethical review to the National
Committee on Research in the Social Sciences and
Humanities as mentioned under section 10, researchers shall
be generally required to;
follow the format that is defined in section 9.1;
submit both an electronic copy and two hard copies of the
research proposal/protocol; and to
enquire from the secretariat on the other specific
requirements and procedures for submission of a protocol
for review by this committee which are not described
herein.
iii. Institutional research and ethics committees shall specify their
own formats that shall, however, be modeled on the general
format.
10.0 MONITORING SYSTEM
Once misconduct during research has been reported, a proper process
of investigation shall be set up. All relevant facts for investigation shall
be gathered without taking sides and the findings shall be made public
for purposes of preserving the integrity of the research community. The
regulatory research authority shall impose strict measures in the case of
fabrication, falsification, fraud, or plagiarism or any form of serious
violation of this framework. All those that report any forms of
misconduct shall be protected.
All records of research approved by institutional research ethics review
committees shall be submitted to the NCST for record keeping and for
creating research data base of all research taking place in the country. In
the event that there are no institutional research and ethics review
committees, researchers shall be required to seek approval from the
National Committee on Research in the Social Sciences and
Humanities whose secretariat is at the NCST.
11.0 APPLICATION OF THE FRAMEWORK
The Framework of Guidelines for Research in the Social Sciences and
Humanities in Malawi shall apply to all researchers and research
institutions in the social sciences and humanities doing research in
Malawi. The guidelines give due consideration to prevent research
activity from becoming unduly constricted, and limiting of academic or
scientific freedom but placing emphasis that such freedom should
occur within the framework of ethical principles set forth in this
document as minimum standards. Nonetheless, all institutional and
subject or discipline specific guidelines are subject to this framework
and other relevant laws and national policies for conducting research in
Malawi.

National Science and Technology Commission (NASTEC) 
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Sri Lanka
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

OBLIGATIONS OF RESEARCHERS

Researchers should protect the interest of the society within a broader dedication to it. They should recognize that the public has trust in them to uphold the integrity of the research, and it should contribute to the development of society.

1.1 Researchers are required to respect the dignity of human participants and take active steps to protect their well-being. They should follow institutional, professional and governmental ethical and regulatory guidelines [1]

1.2 Researchers should obligate themselves to withhold research findings that may harm the health or well-being of others [1]. If the findings may harm the well being of others, researchers should take active steps to prevent the misuse of them

1.3 Researchers should be intellectually honest. They should fully disclose information important to society and when exchanging information they should not conceal their findings [2]

1.4 Researchers should take active steps to correct errors or oversights in proposing, conducting or reporting research [3]. They should also respect others’ criticism  

1.5 Researchers should devote time to discover new knowledge and skills using clear objectives and repeatable methods [2]

1.6 Researchers have a duty to ensure that their work enhances the good name of the Institute and the profession to which they belong [4]

2.      ADHERENCE TO POLICIES [1]

Researchers should be aware that, in conducting, reporting or reviewing research, plagiarism, fabrication or falsification of data and misrepresentation of methods are violations of the code of ethics.
                                                              
2.1 Researchers should be aware of professional, institutional and governmental regulations and policies in proposing, conducting, reporting and reviewing research

2.2 Researchers should take active steps to resolve discrepancies when policies or regulations are unclear or contradict one another
3.      OBLIGATIONS OF A RESEARCHER TO THE INSTITUTION 

Researchers have an obligation towards the institution in which they conduct research. They should ensure that their work enhances the status of the institution.

3.1 Researchers should follow the institutional policies, laws, regulations and the code of ethics 

3.2 Researchers should be aware of the impact their research would have on the institution. They should not cause problems to the institution by mishandling research

3.3 Researchers should respect the advisor/s, department heads and other supervisor/s in the institution [5]

3.4 Researchers should discuss situations involving research ethics with designated persons in the institution. Such discussions should be carried out in confidence 

3.5 Researchers should ensure that they are aware of the latest policies formulated by the institution

3.6 Researchers should explain fully the scope of their work and peer review mechanisms when they are subjected to prospective financial supporters and to institution/s [5]

3.7 Researchers should not divulge unpublished institutional research findings when exchanging information with other institutes. They should maintain confidentiality at all times

3.8 Researchers should be required to adopt explicit policies which research institutions and government agencies follow to reduce conflicts over intellectual property rights of ownership and access [5]

3.9 Researchers when publishing/discussing their findings should acknowledge the institution in which the research was carried out

4.      COMMITMENT TO COMPETENCY 

Researchers are responsible for maintaining professional competency and remain knowledgeable within their areas of expertise.
2
4.1 Researchers should conduct their work within the scope of their own training and knowledge base [1]

4.2 Researchers should ensure that all persons who assist in the conduct of their research are adequately trained and perform their responsibilities competently [1]

4.3 Researchers should not foster discrimination based on gender, race, age, sexual orientation, religious affiliation, ethnic or national origin [1]

4.4 Researchers should seek assistance when stress or impairment interferes with their ability to conduct professional responsibilities [1]

4.5 Researchers should accept constructive criticism and respect others’ views and opinions [2]

4.6 Researchers may discover honest mistakes and these should be acknowledged [5]

5.      COMMITMENT TO CREDIBILITY

Researchers should engage in those practices that are accepted within the scientific community when proposing, conducting and reporting research.

5.1 Researchers should present themselves to the public in a competent, sincere and trustworthy manner [2]. They should conduct their professional responsibilities in a manner that is not intentionally deceitful 

5.2 Researchers should practice honest stewardship of their research resources and use recognized accounting methods [1]

5.3 Researchers should not distort findings and they should willingly discard falsified hypotheses [2]

5.4 Researchers should convince the community of peers of the correctness of their concepts and ideas through a proper understanding of the methods, techniques and social conventions of science [4]

5.5 Researchers should not present or publish a component of the findings of a larger body of work, which could conceal the findings or lead to misunderstandings

5.6 Researchers who witness or suspect fraud or misconduct should follow established procedures to preserve the integrity of the scientific community and the scientific record [5]

5.7 Researchers accused of fraud or misconduct should not harass those believed or known to have made accusations against them

6.      RESPONSIBILITIES TO COLLEAGUES AND PEERS [1]

Researchers as members of the scientific community have a responsibility towards their colleagues and peers.
6.1 Researchers should respect the rights of their colleagues and peers. They should not hinder the progress of their fellow scientists

6.2 Researchers should clarify early in a collaborative project expectations and responsibilities of those involved

6.3 Researchers should take active steps to maintain positive relationships with their colleagues. They should not divulge any discussion carried out in confidence and in the event that interpersonal conflict takes place they should seek consultation from relevant responsible personnel 

6.4 Researchers should protect the integrity of intellectual property and research materials when reviewing others’ work

7.      PEER REVIEW

Researchers are often subjected to peer reviews, these reviews should be conducted in an objective, confidential and timely manner.

7.1 Researchers should respect their peers irrespective of their fields. They should not undermine their peers under any circumstances 

7.2 Researchers should remain impartial and maintain confidentiality when reviewing peers

7.3 Researchers should take active steps to protect the integrity and intellectual property of review material

8.      MENTORING, TRAINING AND SUPERVISORY RELATIONSHIPS

Researchers should nurture the intellectual, ethical and career development of any trainees, students, technicians or other personnel connected to their work.

8.1 Researchers should recognize the strengths and limitations of the above personnel and provide guidance, constructive feedback and assistance that match the changing needs [1]

8.2 Researchers should establish clear and appropriate rules and boundaries in their relationships with trainees, supervisors, students and technicians [1]

8.3 Researchers should not engage in disrespecting the character of or impeding the progress of their trainees, technicians and students

9.  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND EXPLOITATION OF RESOURCES
Researchers should be aware that conflicts of interest and exploitation of resources occur in the context of professional activities. They should recognize and avoid or minimize them.

9.1 Researchers should take active steps to avoid real or perceived conflicts of interest. They should minimize bias, flawed judgment, harm or exploitation [1] 

9.2 Researchers should design their research policies and procedures to protect the integrity of their research, the missions of the institution, the investment of stakeholders and public confidence in the credibility of research [5]

9.3 Researchers should be aware of the system of ethics, which govern the relationship of man and nature. Research activities should not accelerate the rate of extinction of animals or plants and should protect the environment [2]

10.     RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT 

Researchers should clearly and genuinely record methods and data to protect the integrity of their research material. Their materials, methods and data should be made available to others for analysis or checking when the need arises.

10.1    Researchers should adhere to procedures followed by the department/institution in retaining data

10.2    Researchers should utilize accepted/suitable/responsible experimental techniques and materials for collecting, recording, storing and analyzing data in order to minimize the influence of individual bias. In the event new techniques are developed and utilized, procedures should be specified clearly 

10.3    Researchers should maintain data and records in a secure form. They must be retained intact for as long as there is continuing value to the researcher, i.e. patent requirements, legislative and other regulatory requirements for a period of at least five years from the date of publication

10.4    Researchers should take precautions when confidential research data records are stored electronically. They should ensure that access to such data and records is controlled 

10.5    Researchers should be aware of the ownership of their research data, methods and findings

10.6    Researchers should acknowledge data derived from substantially similar research [1]

10.7    Researchers should retain copies of the data for their own use. However for protection of data and in the event of any possible allegation of falsification of data, researchers should retain the original data in the department/research unit/institution in which the data originated [6]

10.8    Researchers should have available data related to a publication for discussion with other researchers. Where confidentiality provisions apply researchers should ensure that reference to the desirable data by third party occurs without breaching such confidentiality [6]

10.9    Researchers should adhere to confidentiality agreements to protect intellectual property rights of all concerned [6]

11.     AUTHORSHIP AND PUBLICATION PRACTICES

Researchers should respect the intellectual property rights of others. And should not take & use another person’s thoughts, writing and inventions as their own.

11.1    Researchers should be aware of the minimum requirements of an author of a publication as prescribed in the ‘ Vancouver Protocol’. In order for a researcher to claim authorship of a publication, he/she should have contributed by;
a.  Participating in the conception and design of the research to which the publication relates (‘relevant research’), directing its conduct or analysis and interpretation of relevant research data and
b.  Drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content and
c.  Giving final approval of the version to be published from the scientific point of view 

Other members who have contributed to a particular publication, not falling within the criteria of authorship should be included in the acknowledgements or in the appendix (Vancouver Protocol).

11.2    Researchers should facilitate discussion and set ground rules early in collaborative relationships regarding authorship assignment [1]. The order of authorship should be a joint decision of the co-authors [4]

11.3    Researchers should undertake responsibility for the accuracy of research reports for which they claim full or co-authorship [1]. When there is more than one co-author, one co-author should be nominated as executive author for administration and correspondence purposes

11.4    Researchers should preserve the integrity of the scientific record when publishing their research output. They should express their ideas without fear or favour. In addition, they should be willing to accept criticism from experts and referees [7] and when necessary take active steps to correct errors in a relevant publication

11.5    Researchers should acknowledge a publication which is substantially similar to another; when submitting one research output to more than one publisher, the researcher should disclose this information to the publisher at the time of submission 

11.6    Researchers should respect the privacy of others’ unpublished work.  They should not submit or publish previously published materials without appropriate citation [1]

11.7    Researchers should after publication, share the data and other research materials with their colleagues upon request [5]

11.8    Researchers should adhere to confidentiality agreements and in the event that limitations and restrictions are agreed upon and these stipulations should be taken into consideration

11.9    Researchers should not report their research findings in the public media before they report to a research audience of experts in the field of research – preferably by publication in a peer-reviewed journal, except where there is a contractual arrangement [4]

11.10   Researchers should ensure that the source of financial support is acknowledged in a publication

12.     ALLOCATION OF CREDIT

Researchers should comply with the principle of fairness and the role of personal recognition, within the reward system of science and  should ensure proper allocation of credit.

12.1    Researchers should acknowledge the work of others in a standard scientific paper. It could be either in the list of authors, in the acknowledgments of contribution from others or in the list of references or citations [5]

12.2    Researchers should ensure that the work of research students, research assistants, technical officers and others is acknowledged/recognized in a publication to which they have made a contribution [1]

12.3    Researchers should attribute credit to others for their ideas/support/contribution in proposing, conducting or reporting their own work

12.4    Researchers should allocate due credit to the source of financial support which allowed that particular research project/programmme to be carried out

13.     PUBLIC SPEAKING
Researchers should have proper regard for the safety and welfare of the public in the performance of their professional duties. They should ensure that research findings are accurately transferred to the public via seminars/ workshops/ lectures/ conferences.
13.1    Researchers should educate the public on their research findings and achievements. They should ensure that the research findings are extended to the public factually and without exaggeration

13.2    Researchers should present only completed findings to the public. They should not agitate the public by presenting incomplete work

13.3    Researchers should be objective in their presentation. They should express an opinion on a particular subject only when it is founded on adequate knowledge and honest conviction

13.4    Researchers should be dignified and modest in explaining their work. They should uphold the honor and dignity of their profession, and refrain from self-laudatory advertising

13.5    Researchers should preface any ex parte statements, criticisms, or arguments that they may issue by clearly indicating on whose behalf they are made. They should also acknowledge any assistance received in performing their duties

14.     LABORATORY ETHICS

Researchers should conform to the rules and regulations set forth by the responsible authority of the institution. They should adhere to the practices and controls of the laboratory.

14.1    Researchers engaged in a laboratory study should wear clothing and other accessories appropriate to perform their duties. Such clothing and other accessories should be changed as often as necessary to ensure personal sanitation and health and to prevent microbiological, radiological or chemical contamination [8]

14.2    Researchers should label all reagents and solutions in the laboratory to indicate identity, concentration, date of manufacture and expiration and storage requirements. They should not use deteriorated or outdated reagents and solutions [8]

14.3    Researchers should regularly inspect, clean and maintain the equipment/ glassware in use. They should test, calibrate, clean and/or standardize the equipment used for the generation, measurement or assessment of data. Researchers should also allow the authorized personnel to carry out inspection of equipment, facilities, records and specimens which need to be maintained [8]

14.4    Researchers should ensure that fume hoods and other ventilators are in working condition. They should check/test the activity of the same prior to use. In the event of utilizing poisonous and highly toxic gases prior to use they should inform the appropriate authority and during use they should regularly check the activity of the fume hood [9]

14.5    Researchers should have a laboratory notebook in which they enter their research activities. This notebook should be validated and dated by a colleague.  In the event a researcher has embarked on patentable work he/she should report potentially valuable discoveries promptly to the patent official of the organization sponsoring the research [5]

14.6    Researchers should carry out test systems or tests and control articles known to be biohazardous, i.e., volatile substances, aerosols, radioactive materials and infectious agents in isolated and separated areas. The disposal of these material should be according to specified instructions from accredited organizations [8]

14.7    Researchers should effectively isolate subjects of research either known or suspected of being diseased or carriers of disease as appropriate for the diagnosis, treatment and control of disease [8]

14.8    Researchers should decontaminate waste material, reusable equipment and apparatus, animal carcasses and tissue samples, both animal and human, by decontaminating utilizing an autoclave, chemicals and incinerators respectively under appropriate conditions and specifications  

14.9    Researchers should transfer all raw data, documentation, protocols, specimens and final reports to the archives during or at the close of the study. Separate space may be allocated for archives of limited access. All such data should be accessed, stored and retrieved only by authorized personnel  [8]

15.     CARE AND USE OF ANIMALS FOR RESEARCH

Researchers using animals for research should follow institutional, professional and governmental ethical and regulatory guidelines.

15.1    Researchers should substitute inanimate materials and processes for animals where appropriate. In the event animal subjects are used they should obtain ethical clearance from a relevant Ethics Committee.  

15.2    Researchers should make efforts to use lower species which may be less susceptible to pain and distress when substitution of materials and 

15.3    process are not possible [1]. They should also use procedures which will cause minimal pain to animals

15.4    Researchers should take active steps to reduce the use of animals to the minimum number necessary and in the event of sacrificing animals only the minimum number required should be sacrificed [1]

15.5    Researchers should provide and maintain proper environmental conditions, sufficient space, water, food etc. to ensure good health conditions and to minimize stress while housing the animals. They should provide facilities for the proper collection and disposal of all animal waste and refuse and should ensure cleaning and sanitizing animal cages and accessory equipment at appropriate intervals [9]

15.6    Researchers should isolate all newly received animals from outside sources. They should evaluate their health status in accordance with acceptable veterinary medical practices [9]

16.     CARE AND USE OF HUMAN BEINGS FOR RESEARCH  

Researchers’ primary intension when utilizing human subjects to advance knowledge should be to respect, benefit and uphold justice of individuals and communities.

16.1    Researchers should only utilize human subjects when absolutely necessary. When designing their research projects they should take appropriate steps to keep all the potentially negative features to a minimum [10]

16.2    Researchers working on human subjects should be qualified and experienced. They should obtain approval from a relevant ethics committee and embark only on research of high quality whereby interest of everyone is met

16.3    Researchers should submit their research proposals to the relevant ethics committee prior to embarking on their research. Each research proposal should be assessed on an individual basis with respect to its individual merits and risks. The details of all procedures should be considered with regard to their possible intrusiveness, invasiveness or distress provoking properties in relation to the target group of participants [10]

16.4    Researchers should receive approval from the related ethics committee for utilizing archived research data records. They however, need not have permission from subjects of research in order to access past records [10]                   

16.5    Researchers should inform the research participants regarding the extent to which they would be involved in the relevant study and should simultaneously receive individual informed consent from each of the research participants specifying that they have read and understood what is required of them and are willing to participate in this particular study. In the event that the prospective subject is not capable of giving informed consent, the consent of a nominated proxy/ a properly authorized representative should be obtained [11]

16.6    Researchers should treat all their human subjects equally. The standard of care/treatment provided to each individual should not differ. They should not deny an individual access to investigational drugs, vaccines and other agents due to their gender, race, age, sexual orientation, religious affiliation, ethnic, national origin or any other. In the event that the researcher also provides clinical care to the subject and if the subject were to withdraw from the study during its course the clinical care received should not be hampered [11]

16.7    Researchers should protect the rights and welfare of the individuals or communities subjected to a study. They should safeguard and ensure confidentiality of research data. Research subjects should be informed of the limits to the researcher's ability to safeguard confidentiality and of the anticipated consequences of breaching of confidentiality [11]

16.8    Researchers when investigating new treatment regimes should group individual research subjects into several clusters in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the treatment. They should not be subjective in their selection of investigating subjects. For instance one should not differentiate between subjects of developed or developing communities [12]  

16.9    Researchers when utilizing human subjects for genetic research should identify and inform risks and benefits involved, maintain confidentiality and ensure that ethical guidelines are adhered to as prescribed by accredited institutions and organizations [1] 

16.10   Researchers should adequately compensate their research subjects for their time, expenses, inconvenience and any other reasons incurred when necessary in accordance with the specifications made by the ethics committee [11]

16.11   Researchers should encourage the participants to provide feedback on the general findings and implications of research in which they have participated [11] 

16.12   Researchers should not subject pregnant and nursing mothers to non-therapeutic research that carries any foreseeable risk to the neonate or fetus, unless this is intended to elucidate problems of pregnancy or lactation [12]

16.13   Researchers who engage in in–vitro fertilization should bear the burden of justifying the worthiness of their research, use the smallest possible number of embryos, submit proposals for review by an institutional review board, have no satisfactory alternative to using embryos, and accrue important clinical data from the research [12]

17.     COMMITMENT TO INDIGENOUS POPULATIONS AND OTHER IDENTIFIABLE GROUPS

Researchers should respect the rights and protect the interests of indigenous populations and other identifiable groups [1].

17.1    Researchers should obtain advice, participation and viewpoints of the respective individuals and population prior to formulating research questions, designing research methods, collecting and analyzing data & thereby ensure minimum risks and maximize benefits to the individuals and population concerned [1]

17.2    Researchers should recognize that consent from or consultation with group authorities or representatives is sometimes necessary before obtaining consent from individuals within indigenous populations or other identifiable groups

17.3    Researchers should take active steps to distinguish individual property both tangible and intangible from collective property owned by indigenous populations or other identifiable groups

17.4    Researchers should take active steps to reduce the risk to indigenous populations or other identifiable groups that result from misuse of their research findings

18.     ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY [1]

Researchers should be aware of the environmental, health and safety consequences of their work. They should be concerned about the health and well being of others.

18.1    Researchers should follow professional, institutional and regulatory guidelines relating to the environment, health and safety

18.2    Researchers should provide a safe and healthy environment for students, co-workers, staff, patients and visitors

18.3    Researchers should play a leadership role in environmental stewardship, health protection and safety standards.


National Society of Professional Engineers 
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Engineering (including Chemical) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Code of Ethics for Engineers
Preamble
Engineering is an important and learned profession. As members of this profession, engineers are expected to exhibit the highest standards of honesty and integrity. Engineering has a direct and vital impact on the quality of life for all people. Accordingly, the services provided by engineers require honesty, impartiality, fairness, and equity, and must be dedicated to the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. Engineers must perform under a standard of professional behavior that requires adherence to the highest principles of ethical conduct.

I.  Fundamental Canons
Engineers, in the fulfillment of their professional duties, shall:
1.  Hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public.
2.  Perform services only in areas of their competence.
3.  Issue public statements only in an objective and truthful manner.
4.  Act for each employer or client as faithful agents or trustees.
5.  Avoid deceptive acts.
6.  Conduct themselves  honorably,  responsibly,  ethically,  and lawfully so  as  to  enhance  the  honor,  reputation,  and  usefulness of the profession.

II. Rules of Practice
1.  Engineers  shall  hold  paramount  the  safety,  health,  and  welfare of the public.
a.  If engineers’ judgment is overruled under circumstances that endanger life or property, they shall notify their employer or client and such other authority as may be appropriate.
b.  Engineers shall approve only those engineering documents that are in conformity with applicable standards.
c.  Engineers shall not reveal facts, data, or information without the prior consent of the client or employer except as authorized or required by law or this Code.
d.  Engineers shall not permit the use of their name or associate in business ventures with any person or firm that they believe is engaged in fraudulent or dishonest enterprise.
e.  Engineers shall not aid or abet the unlawful practice of engineering by a person or firm.
f.  Engineers having knowledge of any alleged violation of this Code shall report thereon to appropriate professional bodies and, when relevant, also to public authorities, and cooperate with the proper authorities in furnishing such information or assistance as may be required.
2.  Engineers   shall   perform  services   only   in   the   areas   of   their competence.
a.  Engineers shall undertake assignments only when qualified by education or experience in the specific technical fields involved.
b.  Engineers shall not affix their signatures to any plans or documents dealing with subject matter in which they lack competence, nor to any plan or document not prepared under their direction and control.
c.  Engineers may accept assignments and assume responsibility for coordination of an entire project and sign and seal the engineering documents for the entire project, provided that each technical segment is signed and sealed only by the qualified engineers who prepared the segment.
3.  Engineers  shall  issue  public  statements  only  in  an  objective  and truthful manner.
a.  Engineers shall be objective and truthful in professional reports, statements, or testimony. They shall include all relevant and pertinent information in such reports, statements, or testimony, which should bear the date indicating when it was current.
b.  Engineers may express publicly technical opinions that are founded upon knowledge of the facts and competence in the subject matter.
c.  Engineers shall issue no statements, criticisms, or arguments on technical matters that are inspired or paid for by interested parties, unless they have prefaced their comments by explicitly identifying the interested parties on whose behalf they are speaking, and by revealing the existence of any interest the engineers may have in the matters.

4. Engineers shall act for each employer or client as faithful agents or
trustees.
a. Engineers shall disclose all known or potential conflicts of interest
that could influence or appear to influence their judgment or the
quality of their services.
b. Engineers shall not accept compensation, financial or otherwise,
from more than one party for services on the same project, or for
services pertaining to the same project, unless the circumstances are
fully disclosed and agreed to by all interested parties.
c. Engineers shall not solicit or accept financial or other valuable
consideration, directly or indirectly, from outside agents in
connection with the work for which they are responsible.
d. Engineers in public service as members, advisors, or employees
of a governmental or quasi-governmental body or department shall
not participate in decisions with respect to services solicited or
provided by them or their organizations in private or public
engineering practice.
e. Engineers shall not solicit or accept a contract from a governmental
body on which a principal or officer of their organization serves as
a member.
5. Engineers shall avoid deceptive acts.
a. Engineers shall not falsify their qualifications or permit
misrepresentation of their or their associates’ qualifications. They
shall not misrepresent or exaggerate their responsibility in or for the
subject matter of prior assignments. Brochures or other
presentations incident to the solicitation of employment shall not
misrepresent pertinent facts concerning employers, employees,
associates, joint venturers, or past accomplishments.
b. Engineers shall not offer, give, solicit, or receive, either directly or
indirectly, any contribution to influence the award of a contract by
public authority, or which may be reasonably construed by the
public as having the effect or intent of influencing the awarding of a
contract. They shall not offer any gift or other valuable
consideration in order to secure work. They shall not pay a
commission, percentage, or brokerage fee in order to secure work,
except to a bona fide employee or bona fide established commercial
or marketing agencies retained by them.
III. Professional Obligations
1. Engineers shall be guided in all their relations by the highest standards
of honesty and integrity.
a. Engineers shall acknowledge their errors and shall not distort or
alter the facts.
b. Engineers shall advise their clients or employers when they believe
a project will not be successful.
c. Engineers shall not accept outside employment to the detriment of
their regular work or interest. Before accepting any outside
engineering employment, they will notify their employers.
d. Engineers shall not attempt to attract an engineer from another
employer by false or misleading pretenses.
e. Engineers shall not promote their own interest at the expense of the
dignity and integrity of the profession.
2. Engineers shall at all times strive to serve the public interest.
a. Engineers are encouraged to participate in civic affairs; career
guidance for youths; and work for the advancement of the safety,
health, and well-being of their community.
b. Engineers shall not complete, sign, or seal plans and/or
specifications that are not in conformity with applicable engineering
standards. If the client or employer insists on such unprofessional
conduct, they shall notify the proper authorities and withdraw from
further service on the project.
c. Engineers are encouraged to extend public knowledge and
appreciation of engineering and its achievements.
d. Engineers are encouraged to adhere to the principles of sustainable
development1 in order to protect the environment for future
generations.
Preamble
Engineering is an important and learned profession. As members of this
profession, engineers are expected to exhibit the highest standards of honesty
and integrity. Engineering has a direct and vital impact on the quality of life for
all people. Accordingly, the services provided by engineers require honesty,
impartiality, fairness, and equity, and must be dedicated to the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare. Engineers must perform under a standard of
professional behavior that requires adherence to the highest principles of ethical
conduct.
I. Fundamental Canons
Engineers, in the fulfillment of their professional duties, shall:
1. Hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public.
2. Perform services only in areas of their competence.
3. Issue public statements only in an objective and truthful manner.
4. Act for each employer or client as faithful agents or trustees.
5. Avoid deceptive acts.
6. Conduct themselves honorably, responsibly, ethically, and
lawfully so as to enhance the honor, reputation, and usefulness
of the profession.
II. Rules of Practice
1. Engineers shall hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare
of the public.
a. If engineers’ judgment is overruled under circumstances that
endanger life or property, they shall notify their employer or client
and such other authority as may be appropriate.
b. Engineers shall approve only those engineering documents that are
in conformity with applicable standards.
c. Engineers shall not reveal facts, data, or information without the
prior consent of the client or employer except as authorized or
required by law or this Code.
d. Engineers shall not permit the use of their name or associate in
business ventures with any person or firm that they believe is
engaged in fraudulent or dishonest enterprise.
e. Engineers shall not aid or abet the unlawful practice of engineering
by a person or firm.
f. Engineers having knowledge of any alleged violation of this Code
shall report thereon to appropriate professional bodies and, when
relevant, also to public authorities, and cooperate with the proper
authorities in furnishing such information or assistance as may be
required.
2. Engineers shall perform services only in the areas of their
competence.
a. Engineers shall undertake assignments only when qualified by
education or experience in the specific technical fields involved.
b. Engineers shall not affix their signatures to any plans or documents
dealing with subject matter in which they lack competence, nor to
any plan or document not prepared under their direction and
control.
c. Engineers may accept assignments and assume responsibility for
coordination of an entire project and sign and seal the engineering
documents for the entire project, provided that each technical
segment is signed and sealed only by the qualified engineers who
prepared the segment.
3. Engineers shall issue public statements only in an objective and
truthful manner.
a. Engineers shall be objective and truthful in professional reports,
statements, or testimony. They shall include all relevant and
pertinent information in such reports, statements, or testimony,
which should bear the date indicating when it was current.
b. Engineers may express publicly technical opinions that are founded
upon knowledge of the facts and competence in the subject matter.
c. Engineers shall issue no statements, criticisms, or arguments on
technical matters that are inspired or paid for by interested parties,
unless they have prefaced their comments by explicitly identifying
the interested parties on whose behalf they are speaking, and by
revealing the existence of any interest the engineers may have in the
matters.
9. Engineers shall give credit for engineering work to those to whom
credit is due, and will recognize the proprietary interests of others.
a. Engineers shall, whenever possible, name the person or persons
who may be individually responsible for designs, inventions,
writings, or other accomplishments.
b. Engineers using designs supplied by a client recognize that the
designs remain the property of the client and may not be duplicated
by the engineer for others without express permission.
c. Engineers, before undertaking work for others in connection with
which the engineer may make improvements, plans, designs,
inventions, or other records that may justify copyrights or patents,
should enter into a positive agreement regarding ownership.
d. Engineers’ designs, data, records, and notes referring exclusively to
an employer’s work are the employer’s property. The employer
should indemnify the engineer for use of the information for any
purpose other than the original purpose.
e. Engineers shall continue their professional development throughout
their careers and should keep current in their specialty fields by
engaging in professional practice, participating in continuing
education courses, reading in the technical literature, and attending
professional meetings and seminars.
Footnote 1 “Sustainable development” is the challenge of meeting human
needs for natural resources, industrial products, energy, food,
transportation, shelter, and effective waste management while
conserving and protecting environmental quality and the natural
resource base essential for future development.
As Revised July 2007
“By order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia,
former Section 11(c) of the NSPE Code of Ethics prohibiting competitive
bidding, and all policy statements, opinions, rulings or other guidelines
interpreting its scope, have been rescinded as unlawfully interfering with the
legal right of engineers, protected under the antitrust laws, to provide price
information to prospective clients; accordingly, nothing contained in the NSPE
Code of Ethics, policy statements, opinions, rulings or other guidelines prohibits
the submission of price quotations or competitive bids for engineering services
at any time or in any amount.”
Statement by NSPE Executive Committee
In order to correct misunderstandings which have been indicated in some
instances since the issuance of the Supreme Court decision and the entry of the
Final Judgment, it is noted that in its decision of April 25, 1978, the Supreme
Court of the United States declared: “The Sherman Act does not require
competitive bidding.”
It is further noted that as made clear in the Supreme Court decision:
1. Engineers and firms may individually refuse to bid for engineering services.
2. Clients are not required to seek bids for engineering services.
3. Federal, state, and local laws governing procedures to procure engineering
services are not affected, and remain in full force and effect.
4. State societies and local chapters are free to actively and aggressively seek
legislation for professional selection and negotiation procedures by public
agencies.
5. State registration board rules of professional conduct, including rules
prohibiting competitive bidding for engineering services, are not affected and
remain in full force and effect. State registration boards with authority to
adopt rules of professional conduct may adopt rules governing procedures to
obtain engineering services.
6. As noted by the Supreme Court, “nothing in the judgment prevents NSPE and
its members from attempting to influence governmental action . . .”
3. Engineers shall avoid all conduct or practice that deceives the public.
a. Engineers shall avoid the use of statements containing a material
misrepresentation of fact or omitting a material fact.
b. Consistent with the foregoing, engineers may advertise for
recruitment of personnel.
c. Consistent with the foregoing, engineers may prepare articles for
the lay or technical press, but such articles shall not imply credit to
the author for work performed by others.
4. Engineers shall not disclose, without consent, confidential information
concerning the business affairs or technical processes of any present or
former client or employer, or public body on which they serve.
a. Engineers shall not, without the consent of all interested parties,
promote or arrange for new employment or practice in connection
with a specific project for which the engineer has gained particular
and specialized knowledge.
b. Engineers shall not, without the consent of all interested parties,
participate in or represent an adversary interest in connection with a
specific project or proceeding in which the engineer has gained
particular specialized knowledge on behalf of a former client or
employer.
5. Engineers shall not be influenced in their professional duties by
conflicting interests.
a. Engineers shall not accept financial or other considerations,
including free engineering designs, from material or equipment
suppliers for specifying their product.
b. Engineers shall not accept commissions or allowances, directly or
indirectly, from contractors or other parties dealing with clients or
employers of the engineer in connection with work for which the
engineer is responsible.
6. Engineers shall not attempt to obtain employment or advancement or
professional engagements by untruthfully criticizing other engineers,
or by other improper or questionable methods.
a. Engineers shall not request, propose, or accept a commission on a
contingent basis under circumstances in which their judgment may
be compromised.
b. Engineers in salaried positions shall accept part-time engineering
work only to the extent consistent with policies of the employer and
in accordance with ethical considerations.
c. Engineers shall not, without consent, use equipment, supplies,
laboratory, or office facilities of an employer to carry on outside
private practice.
7. Engineers shall not attempt to injure, maliciously or falsely, directly
or indirectly, the professional reputation, prospects, practice, or
employment of other engineers. Engineers who believe others are
guilty of unethical or illegal practice shall present such information
to the proper authority for action.
a. Engineers in private practice shall not review the work of another
engineer for the same client, except with the knowledge of such
engineer, or unless the connection of such engineer with the work
has been terminated.
b. Engineers in governmental, industrial, or educational employ are
entitled to review and evaluate the work of other engineers when so
required by their employment duties.
c. Engineers in sales or industrial employ are entitled to make
engineering comparisons of represented products with products of
other suppliers.
8. Engineers shall accept personal responsibility for their professional
activities, provided, however, that engineers may seek indemnification
for services arising out of their practice for other than gross
negligence, where the engineer’s interests cannot otherwise be
protected.
a. Engineers shall conform with state registration laws in the practice
of engineering.
b. Engineers shall not use association with a nonengineer, a
corporation, or partnership as a “cloak” for unethical acts.
Note: In regard to the question of application of the Code to corporations vis-a-vis real persons, business form or type should not negate nor
influence conformance of individuals to the Code. The Code deals with professional services, which services must be performed by real
persons. Real persons in turn establish and implement policies within business structures. The Code is clearly written to apply to the Engineer,
and it is incumbent on members of NSPE to endeavor to live up to its provisions. This applies to all pertinent sections of the Code.
1420 King Street
Alexandria, Virginia 22314-2794
703/684-2800   Fax:703/836-4875
www.nspe.org
Publication date as revised: July 2007   Publication #1102
National Task Force for the Control of Precursor Chemicals (France)
Region: WEOG
Country: France
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct
The purpose of this code of conduct is to contribute to the fight against illicit manufacture of drugs by identifying suspicious transactions and report them to the National Mission of Chemical Precursors Control (MNCPC). 
It is in the process of partnership jointly developed between MNCPC and professional organizations below:
     UIC (Union of Chemical Industries)
      UFCC (French Union of Chemical Distributors)
      PRODAROM (French Association of Fragrance Manufacturers)
      LEEM (Les Entreprises du Medicament)
whose details are recalled in Appendix 4, and any other professional organization that would join.
It aims to help businesses and members of the organizations involved in the production, use and supply chain of substances and equipment listed in Schedules 1 and 2 of this code of conduct:
      educate their staff on the issues of precursors,
      develop their vigilance at the stages of production, storage, sale and transportation
      facilitate evaluation of the measures adopted by companies during inspections conducted by the MNCPC on the sites concerned,
      increase cooperation and information exchange between business and the authorities,
      ensure monitoring of chemicals and equipment that could be diverted to the illicit manufacture of drugs,
      operate, operationally, alerts provided by the MNCPC,
      facilitate the obtaining of licenses under the regulations relating to Category 1 substances.


Nova Scotia Chemist Society
Region: WEOG
Country: Canada
Type of Organisation: Chemistry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Nova Scotia Chemist Society
CODE OF ETHICS
Adherence to the following principles is a requirement of membership.
As professional chemists, chemical technologists, chemists-in-training or chemical technologists-intraining,
the members of The Nova Scotia Chemists’ Society undertake:
- To dedicate themselves to the highest standards of personal honour and professional
integrity;
- To extend fairness and loyalty to associates, employers, subordinates and employees; and
- To accept and defend the primacy of public well-being.
In observance of these commitments, they shall adhere to the following:
13.01 Duties of Members to the Public
A member shall:
- have proper regard in all his or her work for the safety, health and welfare of the public;
- protect the public welfare by acting responsibly at all times and by cooperating with
government and consumer agencies;
- not be associated with enterprises contrary to the public well-being or sponsored by
persons of questionable integrity;
- show due diligence in the practice in the profession and demonstrate an effort to keep up
to date with its changes;
- have the public interest take precedence over all other interests; and
- protect the environment by acting responsibly at all times and by cooperating with
government and consumer agencies.
-
13.02 Duties of Members to their Employers or Clients
A member shall:
- provide competent and responsible services, and shall only undertake work which he or
she is competent to carry out;
- be honest, diligent and conscientious in the performance of his or her duties.
- not be engaged in activities conflicting with his employment, nor accept remuneration for
services rendered other than from his or her employer or client, unless his or her
employer or client gives written consent to do so;
- set fees which fairly reflect the knowledge, skill and time involved in performing services;
and
- not disclose confidential information without the express consent of his or her employer
or client.
13.03 Duties of Members to Themselves, Other Members and the Society
A member shall:
- practice chemistry in accordance with the laws of Nova Scotia and Canada;
- present a good image to the public by maintaining high ethical standards of practice and
standards of personal ethics that reflect credit to the Society;
- support the Society and further its aims;
- conduct himself or herself towards other members with fairness and good faith;
- endeavour to cooperate with other members, and will encourage the ethical
dissemination of new methods and technical knowledge; and
- not deliberately or maliciously attempt to injure the reputation of another member.
- maintain a high level of competence through continuing education.
ORPIC
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Oman
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
About our Code of Business Conduct
Who does it apply to?
This Code applies to all our directors, officers and employees and the directors, officers and employees of our subsidiaries and related companies over which Orpic has control.
We will also strive for our consultants, agents, contractors and suppliers to comply with these standards. We should ensure that they are aware of the contents of this Code by referring them to the version on our website.
What is expected of everyone?
Comply with the Code and the Law Understand the Code. Comply with the Code and  the  law  wherever  you  are.  Use  good judgment and avoid even the appearance
Consider Your Actions, and Ask for Guidance
If ever in doubt about a course of conduct, ask yourself:
    Is it consistent with the Code?
    Is it ethical?
    Is it legal?
    Will it reflect well on me and the
    Company?
    Would  I  want  to  read  about  it  in  the newspaper? 
If the answer is “No” to any of these questions, don’t do it. If you are still uncertain, ask for guidance. The Code tries  to  capture  many of the situations  that  you will encounter, but cannot  address  every  circumstance.
You can seek help from any of the following:
    Your Manager
    General Manager of Human Resources Services
    Head of the Legal & Compliance.
    Manager of Internal Audit
How to use this Code?
Know that the Code applies to a broader group of people than just employees. Understand your  responsibilities for complying with the Code. Become familiar with the different topics covered in the Code and how they are relevant to your particular area of work.

Become aware of the available options in the section “Administration of the Code” so that you are prepared if you have a question to ask, or wish to report a violation of the Code.
When Written Approval Is Required?
Certain actions referenced in the Code – specifically, use of Company assets outside of your employment and certain conflict of interest situations – require the prior written approval of the General Manager of Human Resources  Services.
You must renew this approval annually if the situation continues.
For the General Manager of Human Resources Services, approval must come from the CEO or his designated nominee. Written approvals for executive officers must come from the Board of Directors or its designated committee.
Business Integrity
Conflict of Interest
We must ensure  our  personal  activities and interests do not conflict with our responsibilities to the Company. It is important that even the appearance of a conflict   of   interest   be   avoided.
A conflict of interest can exist if you have a personal interest in a decision being made where that decision should be made free from bias and in the best interests of the Company.
If you think that you could have a conflict of interest situation, you should immediately disclose all relevant details to your manager or the General Manager of Human Resources Services as soon as practicable. If the conflicted party is the CEO or a Director of the Company, that person shall notify the Chairman of the Board.
Some of the more common conflicts that must be resolved  or  avoided are set out below:
    When an immediate family member takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult for you to make decisions or perform actions on behalf of the Company objectively and effectively;
    When immediate family member receives improper personal benefits as a result of your position  at  the  Company;
    When you work with an independent company as a director or in a similar role and that company takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult for you to make decisions on behalf of the Company objectively and effectively;
    If you receive payment from any customer, supplier or competitor of the Company without prior written approval from the General Manager of Human Resources Services (for employees) or the Chairman of the Board (for CEO  and  Directors);
    Any significant direct or indirect ownership interest  in  any  supplier  or  customer;
    Any consulting or employment relationship with any customer, supplier or competitor;
    Any outside business activity that detracts from your ability to devote appropriate time and attention to responsibilities with the Company;
    The receipt of any money, gifts or excessive entertainment from any company with which the Company has current or prospective business   dealings;
 
    Being in the position of supervising, reviewing or having any influence on the job evaluation, pay or benefit of any immediate family  member;  and
    Selling anything to the Company or buying anything from the Company, on terms and conditions that are not comparable with terms at which comparable employees are permitted to so purchase or sell.

We are a government owned company and all employees of the company are governed  by the Law for the “Protection of Public Funds and Avoidance of Conflicts of Interest” (Royal Decree 112/2011), which provides that, any relevant employee who owns a  business  that  provides or intends to provide services, goods and/or consultancy to our organization, is required to obtain the approval from the Chairman of Orpic for  doing  so.

This approval is to be renewed annually until such time that the relevant employee’s employment with Orpic ceases or the business discontinues. It is important that all employees who fall within this category, familiarize themselves with the law; it being the responsibility of the employee to ensure that he or she understands and strictly complies with applicable law.
 
The Head of Legal & Compliance or the General Manager of Human Resources Services may be approached for guidance in this regard.

Serving as a Director at the Request of the Company
If you serve as a member of a board of another company (or its equivalent) at the request of the Company and receive a salary for your services as a director, you must remit the salary to the Company unless prior approval of the CEO is obtained.

Confidentiality
Employees shall maintain the confidentiality of information entrusted to them by the Company and any other confidential information about the Company that comes to their knowledge, from whatever source, whether in our capacity as employees, officers or board members, except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated.

Employees shall not use confidential information for personal benefit or to benefit persons or entities outside the Company. Confidential Information includes all non-public information relating to the Organization and its subsidiary companies.
 
Corruption and Bribery
A bribe is giving or offering to give, receive or demanding to receive anything of value to or from a government, public or private official to influence a discretionary decision. Examples of bribes include payment to a government, public or private official to encourage a decision to award or continue business relations, or to influence the outcome of a government audit or inspection, or to influence tax or other legislation. Other payments to agents of public service also may constitute bribes in some jurisdictions. Representatives of the Company should consult the Head of Legal and Compliance regarding  local  anti-bribery  laws.

We do not offer, promise, give, demand or accept any undue advantage, whether directly or indirectly, to or from:
    A public official;
    A political candidate, party or party official;
    A community leader or other person in a position  of  public  trust;  or
    Any private sector employee (including a person who directs or works for a private sector  enterprise  in  any  capacity)
In order to obtain, retain or direct business or to secure any other improper advantage in the conduct of business.
Certaincountriesallowwhatisknownas“facilitation payments” as an exception that is permitted under the local law; however, the Company prohibits making facilitation payments.

If you are in doubt about the legitimacy of a payment that you have been requested to make, including facilitation payments, seek the advice of the Head of Legal and Compliance.

The Company may be held liable for bribes paid by a third-party agent or consultant  acting  on the Company’s behalf. Take particular  care when evaluating a prospective third party who might interact with the authorities on behalf of the Company. You must not engage a third-party agent or consultant if there is reason to believe that the agent or consultant may attempt to bribe an  official.

Agent or consultant may attempt to bribe an official. Do not receive or demand to receive bribes or anything from partners  or  potential  partners or suppliers if in doing so might compromise, or appear to compromise, your ability to make objective business decisions in the best interest of the  Company.
 
Gifts, Meal and Entertainment
Do not accept gifts,  meals  or  entertainment, or any other favour, from partners or potential partners, or suppliers if doing so might compromise, or appear to compromise, your ability to make objective business decisions in the best interest of the  Company.

Acceptance of gifts, meals or entertainment that exceeds the following limitations must be approved in  writing  by  GM  HRS.

Gifts
Do not:
    Accept gifts in exchange for doing, or promising to do, anything for a customer or supplier;
    Ask for gifts from a customer or supplier;
    Accept gifts of cash or cash equivalents, such as gift cards; or
    Accept gifts of more than modest value.
 
Meals and Entertainment
You may accept occasional meals and entertainment from customers and suppliers if the event is attended by the customer or supplier, and the costs involved are in line with local custom for business-related meals and entertainment. For example, ordinary business meals and attendance at local sporting events generally are acceptable.

Refusing Gifts, Meals and Entertainment
If you are offered a gift, meal or entertainment in contravention of  the  foregoing principles, politely decline and explain the Company’s rules. If returning a gift would offend the giver, or the circumstances under which it was given preclude its return, you may accept the gift, but should notify the General Manager of Human Resources Services. The Company will work with you either to donate the item to charity, or to distribute or raffle the item among a large group of employees.
Gifts, Meals and Entertainment for Customers and Suppliers
Gifts, meals and entertainment for customers and suppliers must support the legitimate business interests of the Company and should be reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. Always be sensitive to our customers’ and suppliers’ own rules on receiving gifts, meals and entertainment.
Travel and Events
If you are invited by a customer or supplier to an event involving out-of-town travel or overnight stay, consult your manager to determine if there is adequate business rationale for your attendance. If there is, the Company should pay for your travel and attendance at the event.
Business and Financial Records
Ensure the accuracy of the Company’s business and financial records that you are aware of within the framework of your professional duties. These  include  not  only  financial  accounts, but other records such as quality reports, time records, expense reports and submissions such as benefits claim forms and resumes. Ensuring accurate and complete business and financial records is everyone’s responsibility, not just a role for  accounting  and  finance  personnel.

Accurate recordkeeping and reporting reflects on the Company’s reputation and credibility and ensures that the Company meets its legal and regulatory  obligations.

    Always record and classify transactions in the proper accounting period and in the appropriate account and department. Do not delay or accelerate the recording of revenue or expenses to meet budgetary goals.
    Estimates and accruals must be supported by  appropriate  documentation  and  be
    Ensure that all reports to regulatory authorities are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable.
    Never falsify any document.
    Do not distort the true nature of any transaction.
    Never enable another person’s efforts to evade taxes or subvert local currency laws. For this reason, payments generally should be made only to the person or firm that actually provided the goods or services.

Strive for Accuracy
All employees must strive to be accurate when preparing any information for the Company, but honest mistakes occasionally will happen. Only intentional efforts to misrepresent or improperly record transactions, or otherwise to falsify a Company  business  record,  are  Code  violations.
Company Assets
Protect the Company’s assets and use those assets in the manner intended. Do not use Company assets for your personal benefit or the benefit of anyone other than the Company.
    Use common sense. For example, the occasional personal phone call or e-mail from your workplace is acceptable. Excessive personal calls or e-mail is a misuse of assets.
 
    Company policy may allow additional personal use of certain assets, such as a Company car or wireless communication device. Always check relevant policies to ensure that you are using Company assets as intended.

Theft of Company  assets  –  whether  physical theft such as unauthorized removal of Company product, equipment or information, or theft through embezzlement or intentional misreporting of time or expenses – could lead to sanctions, according to the law and the Company’s policies. The Company treats workplace theft of assets belonging to other employees the same way it treats theft of Company assets.
The use of Company assets outside of your employment responsibilities – such as using your Company work product in an outside venture, or using Company materials or equipment to support personal interests – requires prior written approval from  the  Chief  Executive  Officer.
You must have this approval renewed annually if you continue to use the asset outside of work.
Use of Time, Equipment and Other Assets
    Do not engage in personal activities during work hours that interfere with or prevent you from fulfilling your job responsibilities.
    Do not use Company computers and equipment for outside businesses, or for illegal or unethical activities such as gambling, pornography or other offensive subject matter.
    Do not take for yourself any opportunity for financial gain that you learn about because of your position at the Company, or through the use of  company  property  or  information.

Examples of company assets:

    Company money
    Company product
    The period of activity during which you are at work belongs to the Company, as you are at the disposal of the employer
    The result of your work
    Computer systems and software
    Telephones and wireless communication devices
    Photocopiers, printers, scanners
    Office consumables
    Company vehicles
    Proprietary information
    Company trademarks
 
Use of Information
Safeguard the Company’s non-public information, which includes everything from contracts and pricing information to marketing plans, technical specifications and employee information.

Non-public Information
Do not disclose non-public information to anyone outside the Company, including to family and friends, except when disclosure is required for business purposes. Even then, take appropriate steps, such as execution of a confidentiality agreement, to prevent misuse of the information.

Do not disclose non-public information to others inside the Company unless they have a business reason to know.

Employees are obliged to protect the Company’s non-public information at all times, including outside of the workplace and working hours, and even after employment ends. Employees will have signed a confidentiality undertaking as part of their employment contract. If there is any uncertainty over confidentiality issues, the Legal & Compliance  can  provide  assistance.
 


Retain or discard Company records in accordance with the Company’s record retention policies. The Head of Legal & Compliance may occasionally issue notices regarding retention of records  in the case of actual or threatened litigation or government investigation. Employees must abide by the direction contained in these notices, as failure to do so could subject the Company and employees to serious legal risks.

Dealing in securities
Dealing in securities is a broad concept and covers more than simply buying or selling shares. It extends to exercising options over shares and entering agreements to buy or sell securities.

Securities include:
    Ordinary shares;
    Preference shares;
    Derivatives and options.

You are not permitted to buy or sell, subscribe for new shares, enter into an agreement to subscribe for, buy or sell, securities, or create a derivative over shares if Orpic possess price sensitive information that is not generally available.
 


You are also prohibited from:
    Procuring any other person to deal in those securities;  or
    Directly or indirectly communicating the information to another person who Orpic believes is likely to deal in, or procure another to  deal  in,  those  securities.

Insider Trading
Trading in stocks or securities based on material non-public information, or providing material non- public information to others so that they may trade, is illegal and may result on prosecution.

Privacy
The   Company   respects   the   privacy   of   all   its employees,   business   partners   and   consumers. We must handle personal data responsibly and in compliance  with  all  applicable  privacy  laws. Employees who handle the personal data of others must:
    Act in accordance with applicable law;
    Act in accordance with any relevant contractual obligations;
    Collect, use and process such information only for legitimate business purposes;
    Limit access to the information to those who
 
have a legitimate business purpose for seeing the information;
    Take care to prevent unauthorized disclosure.

Dealing in securities
Dealing in securities is a broad concept and covers more than simply buying or selling shares. It extends to exercising options over shares and entering agreements to buy or sell securities.

Securities include:
    Ordinary shares;
    Preference shares;
    Derivatives and options.

You are not permitted to buy or sell, subscribe for new shares, enter into an agreement to subscribe for, buy or sell, securities, or create a derivative over shares if Orpic possess price sensitive information that is not generally available.

You are also prohibited from:
    Procuring  any  other  person  to  deal  in  those securities;  or
    Directly or indirectly communicating the information to another person who Orpic believes is likely to deal in, or procure another to deal in, those   securities.
 
Insider Trading
Trading in stocks or securities based on material non-public information, or providing material non-public information to others so that they may trade, is illegal and may result on prosecution.

Privacy
The Company respects the privacy of all its employees, business partners and consumers. We must handle personal data responsibly and in compliance with all applicable privacy laws. Employees who handle the personal

Hiring Officials
The Company may hire officials to perform services that have a legitimate business purpose, and that do not conflict with the official’s duties, such as hiring an off-duty police officer to provide security at a company event. All such hiring decisions must be approved in advance by the General Manager of Human Resources Services
 
Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations
We shall comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable  to  the  Company.

We shall not engage in any political activities or propagate any political thoughts amongst staff, customers and suppliers at all times or when using company resources such as e-mails, telephones and other facilities. However, no restrictions are hereby set for involvements within the boundary prescribed by the laws of Oman and when this is so, involvement shall be purely on individual basis and not in the name of Orpic.
The Rights of the Chairman of the Trade Union is reserved  by  the  Royal  Degree  112/2006.


Trade Restrictions
The Company must comply with all applicable trade restrictions and boycotts imposed by the Omani Government. Such restrictions may prohibit the Company from engaging in certain business activities in specified countries, and with specified individuals and entities. These restrictions include, for example, prohibitions on the interaction with identified terrorist
 
organizations or narcotics traffickers. Sanctions for non-compliance can be severe; including fines and imprisonment for responsible individuals, and the Company may be prohibited from further participation in certain trade.

Relations with Customers, Suppliers and Consumers
The Company values its partnerships with customers, suppliers and consumers. Treat these partners in the same manner we  expect to be treated. Always deal fairly with customers, suppliers and consumers, treating them honestly and with respect.

    Do   not   engage   in   unfair,   deceptive   or misleading    practices.
    Always present Company in an honest and forthright  manner.

Competitive Intelligence
Employees are encouraged to collect, share and use information about our competitors, but to do so only in a legal and ethical manner. Just as the Company values and protects its own non-public information, we respect the non-public information of other companies.
 
Acceptable Intelligence Gathering
It is acceptable to collect competitive intelligence through publicly available information or ethical inquiries. For example, you may gather and use information from sources such as:
    Publicly available filings with government agencies
    Public speeches of company executives
    Annual reports
    News   and   trade   journal   articles   and pu blic at io n s

You also may ask third parties about our competitors, or accept competitive intelligence offered by a third party, as long as there is no reason to believe that the third party is under contractual or legal obligation not to reveal such information.

Prohibited Activities
The following basic restrictions apply to our ability to gather competitive intelligence:

    Do not engage in any illegal or illicit activity to obtain competitive information. This includes   theft,   trespassing,   eavesdropping,
 
    Do not accept, disclose or use competitive information that you know or have reason to believe was disclosed to you in breach of a confidentiality agreement between a third party and one of our competitors.
    Do not disclose or use competitive information that is, or you believe should have been, marked “proprietary” or “confidential” without consulting the General Counsel.

Media communication
Employees must not speak to the press or other media organizations without the prior approval of GM Corporate Support Services. We must maintain the confidentiality of all information that is entrusted to us except when the information is publicly available.
The Rights of the Chairman of the Trade Union is reserved  by  the  Royal  Degree  112/2006.

Only the following are the spokespersons for the Company, authorized by the Board to communicate with the media:

    The Chairman
    CEO
    GM Corporate Support Services
    Corporate Communications Manager

Workplace
Safety
We are committed to an incident and injury free workplace. Our goal is zero harm.

Everyone’s behaviour contributes to an incident and injury free workplace; full and consistent implementation of the Company’s safety standards, systems and procedures is required wherever  we   operate.

We aim to building a sustainable safety culture that requires visible and committed leadership, a high level of participation from employees and contractors, and the development of learning and an actively caring workplace. Our Health, Safety and Environment framework requires us to focus on hazard identification, risk analysis and risk management, including identifying low likelihood events that, if they happened, could have major consequences.
 
Health
We are committed to protecting health and wellbeing. 

The Company recognizes that healthy and productive employees are essential to our success and we are committed to preventing new cases of occupational illness. We have a target of achieving a significant reduction in new cases year on year through the identification, evaluation and control of workplace exposures and the implementation of health and well being  programmes.

Environment
As with Safety and Health, we put the environment first. We are committed to preserving and protecting our environment for ourselves and future generations. We strive to continuously improve our environmental management programmes and abide by or exceed the regulations designed to minimize the risk of adverse effects on the environment resulting from our business activities.
 
Employment
We respect the rights and dignity of employees throughout our own operations and those of our business partners. Respect is central to a harmonious workplace, where the rights of employees are upheld and where their dignity is affirmed, free of intimidation, discrimination or coercion of any kind.
 
Therefore, we:

    Prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, gender, national origin, religion, age, harassment, politics, or on the basis of any personal   characteristic   protected   by   law
    Value diversity highly, and welcome employees from a wide range of cultures and races, as well as treating genders equally.
    Forbid using inappropriate language in the workplace, including profanity, swearing, vulgarity  or  verbal  abuse;
    Do not allow coercion or intimidation in the workplace;
    Oppose, and do not permit the use of, forced or child labour;
    Implement equitable and transparent remuneration      systems;      and
    Work to improve employment skills and competencies by regular performance reviews and undertaking education, training and coaching   as   appropriate.
    Workplace harassment is not tolerated at the Company. Harassment may include unwanted advances, jokes, subtle or overt pressure for favours, innuendoes, and offensive propositions.
    Workplace harassment includes threats, intimidation, bullying, and subjecting individuals to  ridicule  or  exclusion
 
Drugs and alcohol impairment
We must not possess or consume illegal drugs, or be impaired by alcohol or drugs, while working on company business or premises. For the safety, wellbeing and productivity of our employees, it is essential that we make the best decisions. We also need to keep sharp to be competitive in today’s business environment. Therefore, we want our judgment to be clear and unimpaired by drugs or alcohol at all times.
Whistle Blowing Policy
In recognition of its importance and necessity, the Company has in place an approved and detailed Whistle Blowing Policy to ensure legal and ethical conduct of all its stakeholders. The policy protects the rights of individuals reporting concerns and guides them to the process that they may follow to report and protect organization’s reputation and integrity.

This Whistle Blowing Policy and its Procedures are to be used for reporting any breach to this code and any other breaches that may be harmful to the values that the organization stands for.
For more details please refer to the Whistle Blowing Policy and procedures.

Raising Concerns
The Company is committed to providing a workplace conducive to open discussion of its business practices. It is the Organization’s policy to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and standards that protect employees against unlawful discrimination or retaliation by their employer as a result of their lawfully reporting information regarding, or their participating in, investigations involving corporate fraud, or other violations of code of business conduct. We all have
 
an obligation to uphold  the  ethical  standards of the Company. If you observe behavior that concerns you, or that may represent a violation of the Code, raise the issue promptly. Doing so will allow the Company an opportunity to deal with the issue and correct it, ideally before it becomes a violation of law or a risk to health, security or the Company’s reputation and integrity.

Employees cannot exempt themselves from the consequencesoftheirownmisconductbyreporting a potential violation, although self-reporting may be taken into account in determining appropriate disciplinary action.

Resources

You have several options for raising issues and concerns. You can contact any of the following:
    Your manager
    Manager of Human Resources Services
    General  Manager  of  Human Resources Services
    Manager of Internal Audit
    Head of Legal & Compliance

In addition, the Company has established a “whistleblower hotline” to which employees may report  potential  violations  of  the  Code.
 
The Company will investigate all concerns to establish their validity and ensure appropriate action is taken where necessary. In this regards therefore, the company has established a committee to screen all registered complaints. This committee is made up of the Manager of Internal Audit, Manager of Human Resources Services and the Head of Legal & Compliance. This committee is responsible for initial screening and investigations of alleged violations of the Code and, depending on the nature of the matter and the individual involved, the committee will process the case based on the established  Whistle  Blowing  Procedure.

Some concerns may be resolved by agreed action without the need for investigation. If urgent action is required, this may be taken before an investigation is conducted. The progression of investigations will be handled in a confidential manner and will not be disclosed or discussed with any persons other than those who have a legitimate need to know.

No Retaliation
The Company values the help of employees who identify potential problems that the Company needs to address and, to the extent appropriate, such concerns will be treated in confidence. The identity of any employee reporting an alleged violation will
 
be held in confidence by the Manager of Internal Audit during any initial investigation, although it may be necessary to subsequently disclose their identity if the matter progresses. If it becomes apparent that your identity may be disclosed, the investigator may need your consent to proceed. If you choose not to identify yourself, the Company may not be able to take the matter further.

Any retaliation against an employee who raises an issue honestly is a violation of the Code. That an employee has raised a concern honestly cannot be the basis for any adverse employment action, including termination, demotion, suspension, loss of benefits, threats, harassment or discrimination.

The types of protection that may be available will depend on the situation but could include ensuring confidentiality in the investigation and protecting an employee’s identity, monitoring and managing the behaviour of employees, offering a leave  of absence while a matter is investigated, transfer to another department and rectifying any detriment the employee may have suffered.
 
If you work with someone who has raised a concern, you should continue to treat the person with courtesy and respect. If you believe someone has retaliated against you, report the matter to any of the persons mentioned above.
Making False Accusations

The Company will protect any employee who raises a concern honestly, but it is a violation of the Code to knowingly make a false accusation. Honest reporting does not mean that you have to be right when you raise a concern; you must have reason to believe that the information you are providing is accurate.
Administration of the Code
The Code of Business Conduct is designed to ensure consistency in how employees conduct themselves within the Company, and in their dealings outside of the Company. The procedures for handling potential violations of the Code have been developed to ensure consistency in the process across  the  organization.

No set of rules can cover all circumstances. These guidelines may be varied as necessary to conform to local law or contract.

Responsibility
The responsibility for administering the Code rests with the Code of Conduct Committee (Head of Legal & Compliance, General Manager HR, CFO and Trade Union Chairman) with oversight by the Audit  Review  Committee.

Investigation of Potential Code Violations

The Company takes all reports of potential Code
 
violations seriously and is committed to confidentiality and a full investigation of all allegations. The Company’s Audit, Finance, Legal or other personnel may conduct or manage Code investigations on instruction of Code of Conduct Committee. Employees who are being investigated for a potential Code violation will have an opportunity to be heard prior to any final determination.

Decisions
The Code of Conduct Committee issues recommendations about Code violations and the CEO and/or Board of Directors may take disciplinary measures based on local regulation implemented to that end and, in particular based on the Company’s mandatory  internal  rules  and  regulations.

Breach of the Code
Regarding breach of the Code, the Code refers for disciplinary measures to the local regulation and, in particular, to the Company’s mandatory internal rules and regulations. In the light of the seriousness of the breach of the Code and in accordance with local employment law, the Company may take all measures that appear to be necessary. A notation of the final decision, and a copy of any document concerning a potential measure, will be placed in the employee’s
 
personnel file as part of the employee’s permanent record under the conditions and limits set by the local regulation.

Reporting of Code Decisions and Investigations

The Code of Conduct Committee periodically reports all pending Code investigations and final Code decisions to the CEO of the Company and to the Audit Review Committee of the Board of Directors.

Signature and Acknowledgement
All new employees must sign an acknowledgement form confirming that they have read the Code of Business Conduct and  agree  to  abide  by its provisions. All employees will be required to make similar  acknowledgements on a periodic basis. Failure to read the Code or sign the acknowledgement form does not excuse an employee  from  compliance  with  the  Code.

Waivers
Waivers of any provisions of this Code must be approved in writing by the Board of Directors or its designated  committee.
 
Pakistan Engineering Council
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Pakistan
Type of Organisation: Engineering (including Chemical)
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct:
(SRO 1463 (1) / 78)

Article 1

This Code of Conduct may be called the Pakistan Engineering Council Code of Conduct.
This shall come into force at once.
This shall apply to all members of the Pakistan Engineering Council.
Article 2

To maintain, uphold and advance the honor and dignity of the engineering professional in accordance with this Code, a member shall-

uphold the ideology of Pakistan;
be honest, impartial and serve the country, his employer, clients and the public at large with devotion;
strive to increase the competence and prestige of the engineering profession;
use his knowledge and skill for the advancement and welfare of mankind;
promote and ensure the maximum utilization of human and material resources of Pakistan for achieving self-reliance;
and not sacrifice the national interest for any personal gain.
Article 3

A member shall be guided in all professional matters by the highest standards of integrity and act as a faithful agent or a trustee for each of his client and employer.
A member shall-
be realistic and honest in all estimates, reports, statements and testimony and shall carry out his professional duties without fear or favor;
admit and accept his own errors when proved and shall refrain form distorting or altering the facts justifying his decision or action;
advise his client or employer honestly about the viability of the project entrusted to him;
not accept any other employment to the detriment of his regular work or interest without the consent of his employer;
not attempt to attract an engineer from another employer by false or misleading pretenses;
not restrain an employee from obtaining a better position with another employer; and
not endeavor to promote his personal interest at the expense of the dignity and integrity of the profession.
Article 4

A member shall have utmost regard for the safety, health and welfare of the public in the performance of his professional duties and for that purpose he shall

regard his duty to the public welfare as paramount;
seek opportunities to be of service in civic affairs and work for the advancement of the safety, health and well-being of the community;
not undertake, prepare, sign, approve or authenticate any plan, design or specifications which are not safe for the safety, health, welfare of a person or persons, or are not in conformity with the accepted engineering standards and if any client or an employer insists on such unprofessional conduct, he shall notify the authorities concerned and withdraw form further service on the project; and
point out the consequences to his client or the employer if his engineering judgment is over-ruled by any non-technical person.
Article 5

A member shall avoid all acts or practices likely to discredit the dignity or honor of the profession and for that purpose he shall not advertise his professional services in a manner derogatory to the dignity of the profession. He may, however, utilize the following means of identification.
professional cards and listing in recognized and dignified publications and classified section of the telephone directories,
sign boards at the site of his office or projects for which he renders services; and 
brochures, business cards, letter-heads and other factual representations of experience, facilities, personnel and capacity to render services.
A member may write articles for recognized publications but such articles should be dignified, free form ostentations or laudatory implications, based on factual conclusions and should not imply other than his direct participation in the work described unless credit is given to others for their share of the work.
A member shall not allow himself to be listed for employment using exaggerated statements of his qualifications.
Article 6

A member shall endeavor to extend public knowledge and appreciation of engineering profession, propagate the achievements of the profession and protect it from misrepresentation and misunderstanding.
Article 7

A member shall express an opinion of an engineering subject only when founded on adequate knowledge, experience and honest conviction.
Article 8

A member shall undertake engineering assignments only when he possesses adequate qualifications, training and experience. He shall engage or advise for engaging of the experts and specialists whenever the client's or employers' interest are best served by such service.
A member shall not discourage the necessity of other appropriate engineering services, designs, plans or specifications or limit-free competition by specifying materials of particular make or model.
Article 9

A member shall not disclose confidential information concerning the business affairs or technical processes of any present or former client or employer without his consent. 
Article 10

A member shall uphold the principles of appropriate and adequate compensation for those engaged in engineering work and for that purpose he shall not-
undertake or agree to perform any engineering service free except for civic, charitable, religious, or non-profit organizations or institutions;
undertake professional engineering work at a remuneration below the accepted standards of the profession in the discipline;
and accept remuneration from either an employee or employment agency for giving employment.
A member shall offer remuneration commensuration with the qualifications and experience of an engineer employed by him.
A member working in any sales section or department shall not offer or give engineering consultation, or designs, or advice other than specifically applying to the equipment being sold in that section or department.
Article 11

A member shall not accept compensation, financial or otherwise, from more than one party for the same service, or for services pertaining to the same work unless all interested parties give their consent to such compensation.
A member shall not accept:-
financial or other considerations, including free engineering design, from material or equipment suppliers for specifying their products; and
commissions or allowances, directly or indirectly, from contractors or other parties dealing with his clients or employer in connection with work for which he is professionally responsible.
Article 12

A member shall not compete unfairly with another member or engineer by attempting to obtain employment, professional engagements or personal gains by taking advantage of his superior position or by criticizing other engineers or by any other improper means or methods.
An engineer shell not attempt to supplant another engineer in a particular employment after becoming aware that definite steps have been taken towards other's employment.
A members shall not accept part-time engineering work at a fee or remuneration less than that of the recognized standard for a similar work and without the consent of his employer if he is already in another employment.
A member shall not utilize equipment, supplies, laboratory or office facilities of his employer or client for the purpose of private practice without his consent.
Article 13

A member shall not attempt to injure, maliciously or falsely, directly or indirectly, the professional reputation, prospects, practices or employment of another engineer or member.
A member engaged in private practice shall not review the work of another engineer for the same client, except with knowledge of such engineer or, unless the connection of such engineer with work has been terminated;
provided that a member shall be entitled to review and evaluate the work of other engineers when so required by his employment duties.
A member employed in any sales or industrial concern shall be entitled to make engineering comparisons of his products with products of other suppliers.
Article 14

A member shall not associate with or allow the use of his name by an enterprise of questionable character nor will he become professionally associated with engineers who do not conform to ethical practices or with persons not legally qualified to tender the professional service for which the association is intended.
A member shall strictly comply with the bye-laws, orders and instructions issued by the Pakistan Engineering Council from time to time in professional practice and shall not use the association with a non-engineering corporation, or partnership as a cloak for any unethical act or acts. 
Article 15

A member shall give credit for engineering work to those to whom credit is due, recognize the proprietary interests of others and disclose the name of a person or persons who may be responsible for his designs, inventions, specifications, writings, or other accomplishments.
When a member uses designs, plans, specifications, data and notes supplied to him by a client or an employer or are prepared by him in reference to such client or the employer's work such designs, plans, specifications, data and notes shall remain the property of the client and shall not be duplicated by a member for any use without the express permission of the client.
Before undertaking any work on behalf of a person or persons for making improvements, plans, designs, inventions or specifications which may justify copyright or patent, a member shall get ownership of such improvements, plans, designs, inventions or specifications determined for the prupose of registration under the relevant copyright and patent laws.  
Article 16

A member shall disseminate professional knowledge by interchanging information and experience with other members or engineers and students to provide them opportunity for the professional development and advancement of engineers under his supervision.
A member shall encourage his engineering employees to improve their knowledge, attend and present papers at professional meetings and provide a prospective engineering employee with complete information on working conditions and his proposed status of employment and after employment keep him informed of any change in such conditions.

Article 17

A member employed abroad shall order his conduct according to this Code, so far as this is applicable, and the laws and regulations of the country of his employment.
Article 18

A member shall report unethical professional practices of an engineer or a member with substantiating data to the Pakistan Engineering Council and appear as a witness, if required.
PETKIM Code of Conduct
Region: WEOG
Country: Turkey
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

PETKIM PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIES HOLDING CO. INC. CODES OF CONDUCT

These Codes of Conduct have been established within the organization of our company upon the Decision of Board of Directors no. 48/110 of 08/10/2009 pursuant to the Communiqué on Corporate Management principles published by the Capital Markets Board.

The Codes of Conduct of Petkim are integral with its assets and principles. They cover the fundamental behavior principles of the Company. The Board of Directors, managers and employees comply with these assets in all their affairs and make their best to keep the reputation of the Company and its shareholders at the highest level. These codes of conduct have been prepared to ensure that the customers, suppliers and external persons also adopt these principles.

1.  HONESTY and RELIABILITY
Reliability and honesty are our priority assets in all out working processes.  It is our main objective to be a symbol of honesty towards our employees, partners, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, environment, community and humanity.

2.  PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY AND COMMERCIAL SECRETS
The confidential and private information and documents, commercial secrets, unpublicized financial and other information, information on personal rights of the employees and “confidentiality contracts” entered into with third persons shall be treated under protection of confidentiality and commercial secrets, and utmost care taken to protect such information and documents.

The confidential information and documents as well as projects, regulations, etc. obtained as required by the position of the assignment may not be removed upon resignation from the Company.

3.  CONFLICT OF INTEREST
Employees of Petkim, aim to keep apart from  relations and situations that would involve potential or actual conflict of interest. They do not obtain personal interest from persons or entities with whom they have business relations personally or through their family or relatives.
Employees of Petkim do not use any and all information and documents owned by Petkim under the  trading  of  those who  “known internally” nor obtain interest through the  Stock Exchange or any other means.

In case of any potential conflict of interest, legal provisions and codes of conduct are appilied.

4.  BUSINESS ETHICS AND BEHAVIORS
All employees perform their tasks transparently and in accordance with the principles of equal treatment and accountability.

Mutual respect, confidence and cooperation are the assets in relations between the employees.All employees perform their respective obligations to protect and improve reputable image of the Company. In this context, all employees take care to keep their personal acts and behaviors in accordance with laws and general ethics.

The employees do not use Company related confidential information and/or the information in the nature of trade secret or not open to public in order to drive benefits for himself/herself. .
The employees do not obtain benefit directly or indirectly related with the business of the Company nor accept loans from persons or firms with which the Company has business relations.

5.  OUR RESPONSIBILITIES
Petkim takes care to perform all of the following responsibilities in a best manner in addition to its legal responsibilities.

5.1 Our Legal Responsibilities
Petkim operates its domestic and international business activities fully in accordance with local and international laws and regulations. It timely submits true, full and understandable information to regulatory authorities and organizations. In carrying out its business, it also stands impartially and at equidistance to all public institutions, administrative structures, nongovernmental organizations and political parties without any expectation for interest.

All financial tables and reports prepared by our company are in compliance with national and international accounting principles.

5.2 Our Responsibilities against Our Customers
Petkim operates with focus on customer satisfaction, and the understanding to respond the customers’ requirements and demands in the shortest time and the most correct way.

Petkim tries to maximize the confidence of its customers on the company by producing fast and permanent solutions to its customers’ problems.

5.3 Our Responsibilities against Our Employees
Petkim, acting upon the slogan of “most precious asset is our employees ”; treats its employees equally, does not make discrimination based on religion, language, race, gender and ethnic origin. It establishes and implements necessary training programs aimed at providing the employees with knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviors required for ensuring them to keep up with progress and changes in the nature of their work, improve their work satisfaction and to become more successful in the working environment and evaluates the results of such training programs for the interest of the company. It pays strict care to rovide its employees the safe and the most favorable working environment .
It complies with legal provisions relating to employment and the business.

5.4 Our Responsibilities against Our Shareholders
Growth-focused corporate strategies are applied to increase the share value of the company by avoiding unmanageable risks. It acts under discipline and accountability. Petkim manages the resources, assets of the company and the business hours under the efficiency rules and with the awareness of saving.

Declarations that are made to its shareholders and to public are announced, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment, full disclosure, simultaneity and clarity.. Hence,  all shareholders are provided to access to the information equally and simultaneosly. The information is given on time, exact and in an undstandable format on the financial tables, strategies and the projects that would create potential value.

5.5 Our Responsibilities against Our Suppliers / Clients
Petkim takes utmost care to perform its obligations towards its suppliers / clients in a timely manner. Petkim carefully maintains confidential information on the persons and entities, with whom it has business relations as well as its business partners.

5.6 Our Responsibilities against Industry and the Competitors
Petkim competes with its competitors and the companies in the industry effectively but only in legal and ethic areas, and avoids from the acts that would create unfair competition. It effectively combats against unfair competition through legal ways.

5.7 Our Responsibilities against Environment, Community and Humanity
Our company utilizes environment-friendly production strategies . It complies with the global standarts and legal procedures. It does not consider the use of environment-friendly production technologies as a cost item.

Petkim supports its employees to actively participate in all services serving to the public interest.

5.8 Our Corporate Social Responsibilities
Petkim takes utmost care to its social responsibilities against to the community , it engages in cultural activities such as education, sports and health and supports these activities..
PETKIM Code of Ethics
Region: WEOG
Country: Turkey
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

PETKİM EMPLOYEE CODE OF ETHICS

I.  REMEDIES FOR EMPLOYEES BY VIOLATION OF ETHICS

I.  PETKİM EMPLOYEE CODE OF ETHICS
"Employee Code of Ethics", covers the fundamental principles of our employees.
Business procedures, standards, laws and regulations related to our attitudes and behaviours which cannot provide guidance, in all kinds of places our company’s values "Employee Code of Ethics" are valid.

A.  Accuracy, Integrity
Honesty and integrity is an indispensable for all employees of Petkim and moves in this direction.

B.  .Privacy
It covers information’s of Petkim that might lead to a competitive disadvantage, employees personal information and confidentiality agreements entered into with third parties
trade secrets, confidential information, financial and other information which are not  disclosed to the public .

If PETKİM employees due to his position or for any other reason have confidential information, he will protect these information’s and use these only in the aims of Petkim.
He will never use it for any commercial or personal benefits

In addition, all his stakeholders will take care about the protection of confidential and proprietary information.

During working or leaving the company for any reason, because of his position or any other reason he will not explain any confidential information and documents outside.
Only single designated authorities shall be informed about them.
 
C.  Not to personal benefits

A Petkim employee does not benefit for himself, his family or relatives from persons or institution because of his position.
He doesn’t do activity based on financial interests.
He doesn’t use the name and power of Petkim, the ID of Petkim for personal benefits. He does not compete with the company.

In case of potential conflicts of interest he provides to protect the benefits by using legal and ethic applications.
In cases of hesitation he will consult with the manager or Human Resources Department

The basic principle of a Petkim employee is to be impartiality, his performance, an effect on a decision or his duty and not to accept goods direct or indirect with or without economic value.

Books, magazines, articles, tapes, calendars, CDs or ones similar in nature,  awards or gifts  won in public competitions, campaigns or events, given souvenirs or gifts at
open conferences, symposiums, forums, panel discussions, dinners, receptions or similar events, for the purpose of presentation, distributed to everyone and having a symbolic value and craft products advertising does not conflict with the core principles above and can be considered as a gift.

D.  My responsibilities
Petkim one of our biggest industrial institution compliances with legal responsibilities to all stakeholders and fulfill their responsibilities towards the opponents.
Petkim employees also act on the behalf of Petkim and   fulfill the following responsibilities.

1.  Legal responsibilities
Petkim employees conduct all business processes and relationships of the laws of our country and abides when necessary to international laws,
approaches without the expectation of benefits to organizations and institutions, he stays at an equal distance to civil society organizations and political parties .

He informs institutions and organizations timely with accurate, complete and understandable information.
2.  My responsibilities to our customer
In accordance with our principle; “Satisfaction of our customers comes first and foremost "; our staff is focused on customer satisfaction, sensitive to the needs and demands, and works by anticipating events that may happen. He gives service to customers, on time as promised; and communicate with them respectfully, fair and in the rules of courtesy.

3.  My responsibilities to my work friend
Petkim;
-   With the catchphrase “Our most valuable asset is our employees” Petkim treats equal to all employees. Occupational health and safety rules provide a suitable working environment.
Employees, job qualifications required by any kind of development to keep pace, satisfaction of the improvement of the  business  environment  become  more  successful  in  the
provision of the required knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours which aims to provide educational programs, plans and implements.

-   Petkim takes care of the balance between work and private life of the employees.
He shows the required the effort for the Individual development and supports with social awareness and with appropriate social in volunteering for community activities. Supports and enables masters and doctorate studies of employees.

Employees;
-   The responsibilities to their work friends are within the scope of these principles.
They communicate and cooperate with each other in mutual trust, respect and courtesy.

-   They support each other while encounter a problem executing the work with their knowledge, skills and experiences.
 
4.  My responsibility to suppliers

In collaborations with Petkim, both sides take care for maximizing the creation of value, to identify mutual needs and meeting the needs.

The principle, of Petkim; "All suppliers are natural members of our team" Petkim employees treat all our suppliers honestly, fairly and respectfully, fulfils its obligations on time. They show care and sensitivity and protect confidential information and documents to the suppliers and business partners.
5.  My responsibility to our shareholders
Employees of Petkim; creating value for our shareholders "towards the goal of sustainable profitability .
Act within the framework of financial discipline and transparency, work with our company's resources and assets and manages the runtime efficiently.

6.  My responsibility to our competitors
Petkim employees will avoid unfair competition. He competes in legal and ethical areas and gives this vision to society.

In this context, he supports the transformation of society in the context of a competitive structure study..
 
7.  My responsibility to the community and environment

With the mission to be a “Human and environmental friendly “petrochemical company to ensure safety and environmental protection as priority, accountability, reliability, open
principles and values and to act responsibly towards all stakeholders has been adopted as a key objective.

Petkim has a mission to be environmentally conscious in every area from the use of raw materials, technology, manufacturing operations and management style.
The understanding of our company's environmental responsibility beyond fulfilling the legal requirements is based on the principle of voluntary initiatives by continuously improvement of environmental performance
All Petkim employees are executing all activities in accordance with this awareness. Sensitive to social issues, awareness of being model citizens, civil society organizations and public interest takes place in the services.

8.  My responsibility to the name PETKİM

All employees of Petkim have to fulfill their responsibilities to protect and develop the existing dignity and reputation . In this context, the personal conduct of all employees, pay attention with the company's principles and values under the rules of law and the general public .
They fulfill their obligations diligently under the rules of ethical conduct ,Petkim’s policies, professional standards, and given commitments.
Our business partners, customers and other stakeholders trust to the professional competence and integrity of PETKIM. Staff maintains the highest level of Petkim’s reputation

Offers his studies within the framework of the company policies, professional standards and ethical commitments and fulfill diligently their obligations.
Strives to serve in the areas he believes as a professional and competent and work with customers, business partners, and employees who meet the criteria of accuracy and legitimacy. Petkin doesn’t work with people who undermine public morals,and gives detrimental to the environment and public health.
Petkim’s employees represent Petkim in front of the publics in the best way. They avoid negative impression in the public. They act according the importance, power and modesty of Petkim .
 
II. REMEDIES FOR EMPLOYEES BY VIOLATION OF ETHICS

All Petkim employees are responsible to act according this ethic code guide, in case of breaching these codes, a consultation with the senior management is essential for reconciliation and searching for solutions.

Employees, by keeping their identity secret, can address a notice of violation to the rules of ethics via sending email to a defined address.


Those who violate the rules of ethics, or those who don’t make the required notification within the company will be subject to disciplinary sanctions
Petrobras Code of Conduct
Region: GRULAC
Country: Brazil
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

PETROBRAS
Petrobras
Conduct Guide
Presentation
The Petrobras Conduct Guide is composed of practical measures to implement the Petrobras System Code of Ethics (Code of
Ethics) and other regulations. It encompasses all people subject to the Code of Ethics and presents the conduct to be adopted, guided by the principles of respect, honesty and responsibility, among others. This conduct makes up the basic rules for ethical action.
The types of conduct described here should be viewed as orientation for behavior in situations in people’s professional lives or in situations arising from them.
Through this guide, Petrobras intends to prevent deviations in conduct, promoting the dissemination of educational guidance and activities, without prejudice to the application of appropriate disciplinary measures when any such deviations are identifi
It is essential for everyone to be committed to this guide in order for Petrobras to achieve its targets and objectives in an ethical and transparent manner.
Roles and Responsibilities
Petrobras encourages the dissemination and orientation of the conduct practices established in this guide, as well as the
monitoring and treatment of their deviations.
Members of senior management and people  in managerial positions are responsible for complying with and striving to enforce the guidance established in this guide, spreading its application among the teams they manage.
All people subject to this guide are responsible for following and complying with its guidance and reporting any possible cases of violations through the appropriate channels provided by the company.
The orientation contained in this guide applies to Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (Petrobras). Its application to the Petrobras System’s wholly owned and controlled subsidiaries is also recommended, in accordance with Article 16 of Petrobras’ bylaws.
In the case of affiliates and jointly controlled companies, the orientation contained in this guide is of indicative nature and contributes to alignment of ethics management at the companies related to the Petrobras System.
Scope
Petrobras Conduct Guide

4.1.    General Guidelines
Petrobras requires the following:
4.1.1   Do not practice, submit to or condone any type of violence, prejudice, abuse, discrimination, threat, blackmail, perjury, retaliation, psychological violence, bullying or sexual harassment, or any other act contrary to the ethical principles of the Petrobras System;

4.1.2   Report any risk to the integrity  of people or the environment, or the company’s business, image, reputation
or property, to your immediate manager or the responsible area, who/which must take the appropriate measures to analyze and take a decision on the subject;

4.1.3   Act with honesty, impartiality, respect and transparency in your activities, without obtaining improper advantages, in order to ensure the construction of wholesome, contributory and lasting relations between Petrobras and its stakeholders;
 
4.1.4   Do not imply, request, demand or accept, nor offer, promise or give any kind of favor, advantage, benefit, donation, gratuity or bribe, for the benefit of yourself or another person, in exchange for actions by yourself or third parties;

4.1.5   Consider, respect and respond to the company’s stakeholders, evaluating the relevance of their demands;

4.1.6   Maintain respectful relations with internal and external stakeholders, considering human and cultural diversity;

4.1.7   Preserve cordiality and do not commit any act that could be interpreted as libel, slander or defamation;

4.1.8   Do not use your contractual working hours to do private activities in detriment to the activities performed at
the company and/or that are incompatible with them;

4.1.9   Seek to use a vocabulary compatible with the work environment. The use of derogatory language is prohibited;
 
4.1.10  Seek to wear clothing compatible with the institutional environment, the external stakeholders you interact with and the local culture of the community where you work;

4.1.11  Do not practice or condone any form of child, forced, slave or degrading labor;

4.1.12  Do not practice or condone any form of sexual exploitation, especially of children and adolescents;

4.1.13  Comply with current legislation and the Petrobras System’s policies, norms, guidelines, standards and Code of Ethics.


4.2 Protection of Image and Reputation

The Petrobras System’s image and reputation are influenced by the conduct adopted by everyone who acts on its behalf.
Petrobras requires the following:

4.2.1   Do not cause harm to the image and reputation of the Petrobras System’s companies and workforce through improper actions.


4.3 Use of Corporate Network and Digital Media

You must consider ethical principles, policies, internal standards and the use of appropriate language when using the
corporate network and digital media in the performance of professional activities or in situations arising from them.

For the appropriate use of the corporate network and email system, and digital media,
Petrobras requires the following:

4.3.1   Do not use them for private commercial buying and selling activities, to offer services, or for advertising purposes;
 
4.3.2   Do not obtain, store, use or pass on any material that violates copyright or intellectual property laws, that causes emotional harm, that is offensive to people, or that is contrary to Petrobras’ interests;

4.3.3   Do not obtain, store, use or pass  on any material displaying pornographic
content, the sexual exploitation of children or adolescents, racist content, homophobic content, sexist content, or content attacking religious freedom or diversity;

4.3.4   Do not send messages or post content anonymously;

4.3.5   Do not send offensive messages,
including from a private email account;

4.3.6   Do not intentionally obtain or propagate viruses or similar problems;

4.3.7   Do not try to hack into or violate security systems or controls, or look for vulnerabilities in, monitor, crack or obtain passwords for systems or computers;
 
4.3.8   Do not provide or use third parties’ passwords for systems or computers;

4.3.9   Do not produce or publish any content contrary to Petrobras’ interests on digital media;

4.3.10  Do not send, transmit, distribute, make available or store on the internet any information from internal email accounts, data, commercial secrets, financial secrets, technological secrets or any other information belonging to Petrobras, unless explicitly authorized by the manager responsible for the respective information;

4.3.11  Do not use the corporate network to access internet-based telephony services that are not authorized by Petrobras;

4.3.12  Do not practice any activities of party political, religious, money-making, chain-message or self-help nature.
 
The use of the corporate network and digital media for private purposes is tolerated, provided that this:

does not break any laws;

does not harm the image and reputation of the Petrobras System or its workforce;

does not harm the image of third parties; does not harm work activities;
does not harm the company’s processes;

does not harm the security of corporate information and resources.
 
4.4 Treatment of Information

4.4.1   Information Security

To preserve information security, Petrobras requires the following:

4.4.1.1 Do not disclose, pass on or comment on inside information, meaning strategic information or information related to material acts or facts with economic or financial repercussions not yet made public;

4.4.1.2 Respect professional confidentiality, and keep secret the personal information of any other member of the Petrobras System to which you have access due to your position, function and/or activity performed, except in situations provided for in law;

4.4.1.3 Follow Petrobras’ information security standards and guidelines for producing, handling, reproducing, disclosing, storing, transporting,
 
transmitting and disposing of business information and documents, abiding by the levels of information protection and classification established in internal rules;

4.4.1.4 Comply with the security protocols related to the use of information technology systems and equipment. Do not share passwords or permit unauthorized access to these systems;

4.4.1.5 Immediately notify your immediate manager of any disappearance or suspected loss of information and/or equipment containing personal or inside information;

4.4.1.6 Do not alter or destroy original documents of probative value. Keep them fi ed for the periods defi in law.

4.4.2   Disclosure of information Petrobras seeks to communicate in a
transparent manner with its stakeholders, providing objective and precise information.
 
Petrobras requires the following:

4.4.2.1 Do not disclose the Petrobras System’s business information without prior authorization;

4.4.2.2 Take care for the information contained in documents and communications to be truthful, accurate and compatible with the Petrobras System’s Information Security Guidelines.


4.5 Protection of Property

Petrobras’ property includes all its material and non-material goods, including information, knowledge generated, software, hardware, facilities, materials, fi assets, intangible property rights and credits.

Petrobras requires the following:

4.5.1   Do not use Petrobras’ property for private purposes or other purposes that are not directly related to the company’s activities and businesses;
 
4.5.2   Preserve it from losses, damage and abuse, and always avoid using it inappropriately or wasting it.

4.6 Fraud and Corruption

For the purposes of applying this guide, fraud means any intentional action or omission aimed at injuring or deceiving another person, capable of resulting in a loss for the victim and/or an improper advantage, material or otherwise, for the author or
third parties. It is also characterized by a false declaration or omission of material circumstances in order to lead or induce third parties to make a mistake.

For the purposes of applying this guide, corruption means any direct or indirect action consisting of authorizing, offering, promising, requesting, accepting, delivering or receiving an improper advantage, of economic nature or otherwise, involving individuals or legal entities, public agents or otherwise, with the aim of making someone do or not do a given act.
 

Petrobras repudiates any and all forms of fraud and corruption at all hierarchical levels, in the public and private sectors.

Petrobras requires the following:

4.6.1   Reject and report situations of fraud and corruption, of any kind, direct or indirect, active or passive, whether or not involving monetary values;

4.6.2   Do not imply, request, accept or receive kickbacks, bribes or any other improper advantages;

4.6.3   Do not imply, promise, offer or pay kickbacks, bribes or any other improper advantages.

4.7 Nepotism

Nepotism means favoring your relatives in work or employment relationships, rather than evaluating people’s merit. It takes place when someone is nominated, appointed or
 
hired due to influence from the holder of a senior position that pays a bonus in addition to their basic salary (“função de confiança” or “função gratificada” in Portuguese) who
is their lineal or collateral relative, through either consanguinity or affinity, up to the third degree.

Petrobras requires the following from employees holding a senior position that pays a bonus:

4.7.1   Do not nominate, appoint or hire a spouse/partner or relative of (either lineal or collateral, through consanguinity or affinity, up to the third degree), or a legal entity with an administrator or partner with managerial power who is related to:

a company employee who holds a senior position (“função de confiança”) in the organizational unit responsible for the demand or hiring;

the immediate manager of a company employee who holds a senior position (“função de confiança”) in the organizational unit responsible for the
demand or hiring;
 
the holder of a senior position (“função de confiança”) responsible for authorizing hiring and contract signing.

4.7.2   Do not circumvent the restrictions on nepotism, especially through reciprocal nominations or appointments between Petrobras’ organizational units, constituting “cross-nepotism.”
 
Nepotism Reference Table
 * Agent is deemed to mean someone holding a senior position that pays a bonus in addition to their basic salary (“função de confiança” or “função gratificada” in Portuguese):

4.8 Conflicts of Interest
Confl  ts of interest are deemed to be any situation generated by a clash between the interests of the Petrobras System and the private interests of Petrobras employees, which may harm the Petrobras System’s interests
or improperly infl  e the performance of
Petrobras employees’ activities.

Petrobras requires the following:

4.8.1   Do not get involved directly or indirectly in any activity that confl  ts with the interests of the Petrobras System;

4.8.2   Do not disclose or use inside information obtained as a result of your professional activities to benefit yourself or a third party;
4.8.3   Do not perform any activities that imply the provision of services or maintenance of business relationships
with individuals or legal entities that have an interest in the decision of an agent, or of a collegiate body or area to which an agent belongs;
 4.8.4  Do not directly or indirectly perform an activity that, due to its nature, is incompatible with the duties of your position or function, including an activity performed in related areas or subjects;
4.8.5   Do not act, even informally, as an attorney, consultant, adviser or intermediary for private interests in the Petrobras System or in bodies or entities of the direct or indirect public
administration of any of the branches of the federal government, states, Federal District or municipalities;
4.8.6   Do not practice any acts to benefit the interests of a legal entity involving participation by a Petrobras employee or his/her spouse/partner or relative, either through consanguinity or affinity, lineal or collateral, up to the third degree, which could be benefited or influenced by him/ her in his/her managerial actions (see the Nepotism Reference Table in item 4.8);
4.8.7   Do not receive presents from people who have an interest in a decision of an employee, or of a collegiate body or area
to which an employee belongs, outside the limits established in regulations;
4.8.8   Do not provide services, even occasional ones, to a company whose activity is controlled, inspected or regulated by Petrobras.
4.9 Presents, Gifts and Hospitality

Faced with an opportunity to receive or offer presents, gifts or hospitality, you must abide by the restrictions in legislation and internal regulations.

Petrobras requires the following:

4.9.1   Do not accept, offer or give presents, of any kind and in any situation, from/to individuals or legal entities, except due to ties of kinship or friendship and provided that their cost is borne by the party offering them, or when offered by foreign authorities, in line with protocol;
 
4.9.2   Do not accept, offer or give gifts
or hospitality in exchange for any favors for the party offering them, for you, for Petrobras or for third parties (individuals or legal entities);

4.9.3   Obtain prior formal approval from your executive manager or general manager of your operational unit whenever you offer hospitality to third parties that have any kind of commercial  or institutional relationship with Petrobras;

4.9.4   Obtain prior authorization from your immediate manager to receive any hospitality from third parties that have any kind of commercial or institutional relationship with Petrobras;

4.9.5   Promptly return any presents, gifts or hospitality received in breach of the orientation of this guide or internal standards to the respective givers, as defined in Petrobras’ Guide to Receiving and Offering Presents, Gifts,
Hospitality and Benefits.
 
4.10    Relations with Stakeholders

Petrobras believes that its relations with its stakeholders must be based on respect, dialogue and transparency, and must be conducted so as to efficiently execute its Business and Management Plan.

Petrobras requires the following:

A.  Act honestly and fairly, without offering, giving, obtaining, claiming or accepting improper advantages, through manipulation, the use of information, inside or otherwise, or other schemes of this nature;

B.  Maintain equality in the relationship process, regardless of the type of action;

C.  Inform the different areas of the company that may be interested in relations with these stakeholders.

4.10.1  Press Relations

The press is composed of professionals and organizations that produce journalistic
 
content through different outlets such as newspapers, television channels, radio shows and the internet. It strongly influences the perceptions of stakeholders and public opinion in general.

Petrobras requires the following:

4.10.1.1    Do not speak on behalf of the company unless you have explicit formal authorization from your hierarchical superiors;

4.10.1.2    Forward any requests from the press you receive to the Communications area.

4.10.2  Relations with Public Authorities In relations with public authorities, regulatory agencies and the authorities of the executive, legislative and judicial
branches, Petrobras requires the following:

4.10.2.1    Seek guidance from your immediate manager before responding to any request for
information from public authorities;
 
4.10.2.2    Inform public authorities or regulatory agencies of the confidential nature of information provided, when necessary;

4.10.2.3    Do not mislead or obstruct public authorities’ actions;

4.10.2.4    Do not conceal, alter or destroy company documents, information or records that are subject to official investigations.

4.10.3  Community Relations

In relations with communities that may influence or be influenced by the company because they are located in or frequenters
of locations where it is present, Petrobras requires the following:

4.10.3.1    Respect all groups and individuals, and their values and material and non-material heritage, directly or indirectly involved with Petrobras’ facilities and ventures.
 
4.10.4  Relations with Customers and Suppliers

In relations with groups of legal entities that acquire or may acquire goods and services for the purposes of distribution or own
use, termed customers, and with groups made up of individuals or legal entities that supply goods and services, termed suppliers,
Petrobras requires the following:

4.10.4.1    Contribute to suitable conditions for suppliers to perform their activities in an appropriate manner;

4.10.4.2    When visiting any site of customers or suppliers for technical or commercial reasons, do so with the proper authorization from your immediate manager, accompanied by
at least one more Petrobras employee;

4.10.4.3    Do not provide any kind of professional advice or assistance to customers and suppliers, except when provided for in a contract;
 
4.10.4.4. Conduct procurement or negotiation meetings formally, always in the presence of at least one other Petrobras employee. Direct procurement that does not require
a competitive tender due to its low value may be conducted by a formally designated employee, in accordance with the company’s internal rules;

4.10.4.5    Inform your immediate manager of inappropriate conduct or behavior by customers and suppliers;

4.10.4.6    Follow corporate procedures for treating commercial claims from customers and suppliers;

4.10.4.7    Strictly abide by contractual conditions;

4.10.4.8    Guide customers and suppliers with regard to the Petrobras System’s Code of Ethics, this guide and other internal rules.
 
4.10.5 Relations with Business and Institutional Partners

For the purposes of this guide, business or institutional partners are deemed to be the following, among other entities:

A.  Companies possessing joint stakes with Petrobras in ventures, businesses or other legal entities;

B.  Companies that, through formal partnerships, assist and/or enable Petrobras’ activities;

C.  Individuals or legal entities whose cultural, social, environmental, scientific and/or sporting projects are supported or sponsored by Petrobras.

Petrobras requires the following:

4.10.5.1    Balance conflicts between the priority of guaranteeing information security for the company and the importance of promoting transparency in the partnership,
whenever necessary seeking guidance from your immediate manager;
 
4.10.5.2    Always comply with the guidelines of corporate programs for the social, environmental, sporting, cultural and social responsibility areas for the granting of sponsorship and the establishment of agreements;

4.10.5.3    Do not interfere with the design of the scope of projects sponsored by the company;

4.10.5.4    Strictly abide by contractual conditions.


4.11    Health, Safety and Environment

The characteristics of the company’s operations demand readiness and special attention in relation to the conditions of the environments in which they are conducted.

Petrobras requires the following:

4.11.1  Strive to safeguard the lives, physical integrity and safety of yourself and the people you interact with, the
 
security of the facilities you maintain or use, and the preservation of the environment;

4.11.2  Do not consume, distribute, buy or sell illicit drugs at Petrobras sites or be under the influence of these substances during your working hours;

4.11.3  Do not consume, distribute, buy or sell alcoholic drinks at Petrobras sites or be under the influence of alcohol
during your working hours. The moderate consumption of alcoholic drinks is permitted during official company festivities and celebrations;

4.11.4  Do not smoke in the workplace, except in areas earmarked for this purpose;

4.11.5  Wear uniforms and use personal protective equipment as established by the company’s safety standards.
 
4.12    Respect for Diversity and Equality

In work environments and relationships, diversity is deemed to mean the social and cultural characteristics of a group of workers, recognizing the differences between individuals and treating them with equality and fairness.

Prejudice is deemed to mean treating individuals or groups of individuals in line with preconceived ideas that attribute negative qualities to them.

Discrimination is deemed to mean situations and circumstances that make distinctions between individuals, harming equality of treatment, favoring exclusion and degrading the dignity and rights of individuals.
Petrobras requires the following:

4.12.1  Respect human and cultural diversity in work environments and relations;

4.12.2  Repudiate any and all forms of prejudice and discrimination, reporting any cases experienced or witnessed.
 
4.13    Political and Religious Activities

Petrobras recognizes the constitutional right, also expressed in its Code of Ethics, to political and religious freedom.

Respecting and safeguarding everyone’s rights, Petrobras requires the following:

4.13.1  Do not promote or participate in party political activities during your
working hours, or use company resources for this purpose, or associate the company brand with any political party;

4.13.2  Do not promote or participate in religious activities during your working hours, or use company resources for this purpose, or associate the company brand with any religion, except in cases authorized by the company;

4.13.3  Do not undertake any kind of party political or religious advertising at company sites.
 
4.14    Psychological Violence, Bullying and Sexual Harassment

Psychological violence is characterized by gestures, words, attitudes or actions that are explicitly or subtly offensive, demeaning, discriminatory, humiliating or embarrassing, arising from work relations, which offend
a person’s dignity and are potentially capable of harming their professional career, damaging their physical or psychological integrity, or impairing the work environment.

Bullying is characterized by the repeated and sustained occurrence of psychological violence at work. It may harm someone’s professional career, damage their physical or psychological integrity, impair the work environment, or lead to sickness or even death.

Sexual harassment is criminal conduct characterized by embarrassing “someone in order to obtain a sexual advantage or favor, with an agent using his/her status of hierarchical superiority or authority inherent to the exercise of his/her job, position or function.”
 
Petrobras requires the following:

4.14.1  Do not practice or condone any acts of psychological violence, bullying or sexual harassment.
 
If you experience or witness any conduct in breach of the orientation of this guide, you should report this to your hierarchical superiors and/or the General Ombudsman area (in the latter case with guaranteed confidentiality).

Petrobras respects and welcomes reports or allegations of conduct deviations or signs of conduct deviations made in good faith, and does not tolerate retaliation or punishment against anyone who submits such reports or allegations.
 
Communication and Reporting Channels
Complementary Provisions

I.  Official notices for public selection processes for selecting Petrobras employees must explicitly refer to this guide to inform the candidates in advance.

II. In the “onboarding” process for new employees, or equivalent processes that may be known by other terms, the company will extensively disclose this guide.

III.    This guide applies to members of the Board of Directors, Audit Council and Executive Board, the occupants of management functions, employees and interns.

IV. Petrobras must explicitly refer to this guide when hiring service provision companies, and it must require their employees to comply with it.

V.  This guide will be periodically revised and updated.

VI. Non-compliance with the orientation provided in this guide will be subject to the appropriate administrative measures and penalties, as stipulated in the company’s
 
disciplinary rules, in addition to any legal liability.

VII.    Any non-compliance with the orientation of this guide by employees of service provision companies must be reported to their employer.

 
VIII.   When faced with any situations not covered in this guide, you should look for guidance on the appropriate conduct in Petrobras System’s Code of Ethics and internal standards, or ask your hierarchical superiors or the General Ombudsman area.

IX. The Ethics Commission is responsible  for setting any disputes concerning the interpretation of this guide and deliberating on omissions.
 
For further information, visit our website at the link:
http://www.petrobras.com/en/about-us/governance/

Approved version by Petrobras Executive Board in November 19, 2014, meeting minute
#5182, subject number 1537
 

Petrobras Code of Ethics
Region: GRULAC
Country: Brazil
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

ETHICS CODE
PETROBRAS SYSTEM
ETHICS CODE
THAT’S JUST HOW WE ARE
ETHICS PRINCIPLES Of PETROBRAS
SYSTEM
I. Respect for life and all human beings, integrity, truth, honesty, justice, equity, institutional loyalty, responsibility, zeal, merit, transparency, legality, impersonality, coherence between speech and practice, are the ethics principles that guide the actions of Petrobras System.
II. Respect for life in all its forms, manifestations, and situations is the fundamental ethics principle and guides the care with the quality of life, health, environment, and safety in Petrobras System.
III.    Honesty, integrity, justice, equity, truth, coherence between speech and practice reference Petrobras  System  relations with people and institutions, and they are manifested in respect for differences and diversity of ethnic, religious, social, cultural, linguistic, politic, aesthetic, age, physical, mental, psychic, gender, sexual orientation conditions, and other.
IV. The loyalty to Petrobras System manifests as responsibility, zeal and discipline at work and in dealing with all human beings, and with the material and immaterial goods of the System, in fulfillment of its Mission,
V.   
Vision and Values, by conducts compatible with the execution of its Corporate Strategy, with entrepreneurial spirit committed to overcoming of challenges.
V.  Transparency is manifested  concerning the public interest and of all interested parties and it is compatible with the rights to personal privacy and Information Security Policy of Petrobras System.
VI. The merit is the decisive criterion for all forms of recognition, reward, evaluation and investment in people, the favoritism and nepotism are unacceptable in Petrobras System.
VII.    The legality and impersonality are constitutional principles which preserve the legal order and determine the distinction between personal and professional interests in the conduct of members of the Board of Directors, Fiscal Councils and Executive Boards and employees of Petrobras System.
VIII.   Petrobras System is committed to respecting and valuing  people in their diversity and dignity, in fair labor relations, in a healthy environment, with mutual trust, cooperation, and solidarity.
IX. Petrobras System develops activities of its business by recognizing and valuing the interests and rights of all interested parties.
X.  Petrobras  System  operates   proactively in pursuit of increasing levels of competitiveness,   excellence  and profitability, with environmental and social responsibility, contributing to the sustainable development of Brazil and countries where it operates.
XI. Petrobras System pursuits  for  excellence in quality, safety, environment, health and human resources, and for that promotes education, training and commitment of employees, involving all interested parties.
XII.    Petrobras System recognizes and respects the legal, social, and cultural aspects  of the various environments, regions, and countries in which it operates, always adopting the criterion of maximum execution of rights, compliance with law, rules, and internal procedures.
COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT Of PETROBRAS SYSTEM
COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT OF PETROBRAS SYSTEM
Regarging practice of
Corporate governance, Petrobras System undertakes to:
1.1 pursuit a balance of power between the High Management  (Board  of  Directors and Executive Boards) and shareholders interest, including minority, with a view to aligning the System’s strategic objectives with the interests and rights of all interested parties;
1.2 conduct its business with transparency and   integrity,   creating   credibility   with its shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers, customers, consumers, government, media, communities where it operates and society in general, pursuing to  achieve  growth  and  profi  with social and environmental responsibility;
1.3 encourage all interested parties, internal and external, to disseminate the ethics principles and conduct commitments expressed in this Ethics Code;
 1.4     
1.5 maintain a relationship with its competitors founded on the principles of honesty and respect, adopting explicit and clear rules about its competition procedures;
1.6 promote honest and fair negotiations, without receiving inappropriate advantage through manipulation, use of insider information and other practices of such nature;
1.7 register its reports and statements in a correct, consistent, accurate and complete way,  without  ambiguous   information and make its ledgers available with full transparency to internal and external audits and relevant public agencies;
1.8 produce annual Social and Environmental Balance Sheet  with broad internal participation, explaining its actions to promote environmental, social and cultural development, as well as the environmental, social and cultural consequences and impacts of it activities;
 
1.9 conduct a transparent, true and correct communication, easily  understandable and accessible to all interested parties, and advertising based on the principles set forth in this Ethics Code;
1.10    keep ombudsman agencies as formal channels, among others, for receiving, routing and processing of opinions, suggestions, complaints, criticisms, and denunciations about ethics transgressions, from  the  various   relationship   groups of System, respecting the laws of the countries where it operates;
1.11    comply with and promote compliance with this Ethics Code by means of management and monitoring, at  the  corporate  and local levels, promoting it permanently, with willingness to clarify questions and receive suggestions, and submit this Code and its practices to periodical evaluation processes.
COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT OF PETROBRAS SYSTEM
2
Regarding relation with
its Employees, Petrobras System undertakes to:
2.1 promote working conditions which provide a balance between working, personal, and family life of all employees;
2.2 ensure safety and health at work, providing for that all necessary conditions and equipment;
2.3 provide  formal  listening   channels   to host and process its suggestions, for improvements of internal management processes;
2.4 ensure the availability and  transparency of information affecting its employees, preserving privacy rights in the management of their relevant medical, personal and functional information;
2.5 acknowledge the right of free association of its employees, respecting and valuing their participation in unions and not doing any kind of negative discrimination against unionized employees;
2.6  
2.7 pursuit permanent reconciliation of interests and realization of rights, through institutional channels of negotiation, in its relationship with the unions representing the employees;
2.8 ensure the right of refusal of employees, accepting the suspension of their activities, after taking corrective action and reporting it immediately to their supervisor, if there is a situation of serious and imminent risk to life or physical integrity of employee and/or its colleagues;
2.9 respect and promote diversity and combat all forms of prejudice and discrimination, through transparent admission, training, career advancement, rise to positions, and resignation policy. No employee or potential employee will receive discriminatory treatment a result of its race, skin color, ethnic origin, nationality, social  status, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation, personal appearance, physical, mental or psychological condition, marital status, belief, political opinion, or any other individual differentiation factor;
2.10    promote equal opportunities for all employees, in all policies, practices and procedures, use as sole criterion for professional  growth  the  individual  merit
based on  assessment  of  performance, and ensure their right to know and be represented in the drafting of the functional evaluation and progress criteria;
2.11    develop a corporate culture which values the exchange and dissemination of knowledge, promote the continuous development of its employees and avoid resignations whenever possible, pursuing alternatives of technical- scientific retraining and replacement in area suitable to the situation of its employees, at any hierarchical level;
2.12    provide institutional guarantees and protect the confidentiality of all involved in ethics denunciations, aiming at preserve rights and protect the neutrality of decisions;
2.13    prepare its employees for retirement, as a way to invest in the continuity of their quality of life, by developing systematic activities of guidance and counseling, involving families in discussing the psychological and financial planning aspects, and promoting the internal promotion of knowledge to preserve System memory.
COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT OF PETROBRAS SYSTEM
3
Regarding relation with Petrobras System, its Employees undertake to:
3.1 perform with the maximum commitment, technical quality and diligence the obligations of its contract of employment, take the opportunities for ongoing training, systematically evaluate themselves and learn from their mistakes or others;
3.2 act in an honest, fair, dignified, courteous way, with availability and attention to all people with whom they  relate, internally and externally, respecting any individual differences;
3.3 properly use internal channels to express opinions, suggestions, complaints, criticisms and denunciations, engaging in continuous improvement of processes and procedures of System;
3.4 do not to engage in any activity which conflicts with the interests of Petrobras System and communicate to superiors or to the Ombudsman Agencies any situation which may be an apparent or potential conflict of interest;
 
3.5  
3.6 observe professional secrecy, except as authorized or required by law, preserve the interest of System whenever they arise, whether in public or private environment, and to ensure that everyone does it;
3.7 keep strategic information and those relating to acts or facts not yet disclosed to the market confidential, to which they have access, as well as ensure that others do the same, except when authorized or required by law;
3.8 ensure the proper use of the material and immaterial heritage of Petrobras System, by its legitimate purpose, also to preserve the image and reputation of the companies that comprise it and not use it to obtain any kind of personal advantage;
3.9 do not obtain inappropriate advantages arising from function or position they hold in companies of Petrobras System;
3.10    do not perform or submit to acts of prejudice, discrimination, threat, blackmail, perjury, moral or sexual harassment, or any other act contrary to the  principles and commitments of this Ethics Code, and immediately report the transgressors;
3.11    respect intellectual property and recognize the merits related to the work done by colleagues, regardless of their function;
3.12    watch over, in exercising the right to strike, life, physical integrity and safety of people and facilities, and the preservation of the environment;
3.13    do not require nor imply, neither  accept nor offer any favor, advantage, benefit, gift, gratuity, for themselves or any other person, in return to their professional activities, and they may accept or offer just promotional, public, not exclusive, without commercial value gifts in their relationships with groups out of System;
3.14    have personal  appearance and  attire consistent with the institutional and cultural environment in which they operate.
COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT OF PETROBRAS SYSTEM
4
Regarding relation with Suppliers, Service Providers and Trainees, Petrobras System undertakes to:
4.1 make available to employees of service providers and trainees of Petrobras System, when operating in its facilities, the same healthy and safe conditions at work offered to its employees, reserving the right to management of knowledge and information security of System;
4.2 require to the service providers that their employees comply with the ethics principles and commitments defined in this Code, while contracts with System companies are in force;
4.3 select and hire suppliers and service providers based on criteria strictly legal and technical of quality, cost and timeliness, and demandanethicsprofileintheirmanagement and social and environmental responsibility practices, refusing unfair competition, child labor, forced or compulsory labor practices, and other practices contrary to the principles of this Code, including the production chain of such suppliers;
4.4 require trainees to respect the ethics principles and conduct commitments defined in this Code, while their contracts with companies of the System are in force.
4.5  
COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT OF PETROBRAS SYSTEM
5
Regarding relation with Customers and Consumers,
Petrobras System undertakes to:
5.1 offer good products and services, with advanced technology, at a transparent, efficient, effective, courteous and respectful service standard, aiming at the full satisfaction of its customers and consumers, for the maintenance of lasting relationships;
5.2 fix possible losses from  damage  under its responsibility to its consumers and customers, with the maximum agility, in enforceable deadlines.
5.3  
COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT OF PETROBRAS SYSTEM
6
Regarding relation with Environment, and as proof of its responsibility concerning current
and future generations, Petrobras System undertakes to:
6.1 conduct its business and activities with social and environmental responsibility, contributing to sustainable development;
6.2 maintain standards of excellence in environment, in order to ensure products and services proper to  the  expectations of its customers and to environmental legislation, in Brazil and in countries in which it operates;
6.3 contribute to the preservation and recovery of biodiversity, through the management of the potential impacts of its activities and projects to protect endangered species and areas;
6.4 clearly define its environmental sponsorship policies and programs, with budget allocation and management devices which ensure transparency and participation in their  implementation;
6.5  
6.6 develop programs to maximize its energy efficiency, and the use of renewable energies, aligning the interests of System and the sustainable development of the countries in which it operates;
6.7 invest in the sustainability of its projects, products and services, maximizing their benefits, and minimizing their adverse impacts and monitoring the entire lifecycle of its facilities, operations and products;
6.8 promote the sustainable use of water, oil, natural gas and energy; the reduction of consumption; the recycling of materials; the reduction of solid waste generation and the emission of pollutants gases;
6.9 maintain an environmental management system  for  continuous  improvement   of its processes, including the production chain and promote internal and external actions    of    environmental    awareness;
6.10    identify, evaluate and manage its environmental liabilities, acting preventively and correctively in the solution of the problems which cause them;
6.11    communicate promptly to its consumers, customers, community and society about possible environmental damages, in the event of accidents;
6.12    provide to its consumers, customers, community, and society information about possible environmental damages resulting from bad use and about the final destination of its products.
COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT OF PETROBRAS SYSTEM
7
Regarding relation with the Communities, Petrobras System undertakes to:
7.1 keep permanent channels of communication and dialogue with the communities where it operates, with the purpose to prevent, monitor, evaluate and manage the impacts of its activities;
7.2 participate of the elaboration and implementation of projects jointly  with local authorities, keeping working  groups with the participation of members of the community, creating long-term partnerships, empowering leaders, considering their demands and expectations, and respecting their diversity;
7.3 adopt a transparent and democratic process of sponsorship, through public selection of social, environmental, and cultural projects;
7.4 promote voluntary initiatives of its employees, aiming at mobilize and improve its resources and skills in an  integrated and systemic manner, for the benefit of the communities in which it operates;
7.5 fix possible losses from  damage  under its responsibility to affected people or communities, with the maximum agility.
 
7.6  

COMMITMENT TO CONDUCT OF PETROBRAS SYSTEM
8
Regarding relation with Society, government
and State, Petrobras System undertakes to:
8.1 act in order to contribute decisively to the economic, technological, environmental, social, political, and cultural development of Brazil and of countries in which it operates;
8.2 perform social influence,  in  all  media, as part of the exercise of its economic, environmental, social, cultural, and political responsibility to Brazil and the countries in which it operates;
8.3 contribute to the Government in the preparation and implementation of general public policies and programs and specific projects committed to sustainable development;
8.4 value the involvement and commitment of its employees, in debates and proposals elaboration, aiming at facilitate and strengthen social nature designs,  in actions articulated with public and private, governmental and non-governmental bodies;
 
8.5  
8.6 encourage social awareness and the exercise of  active  citizenship of  its employees, through its institutional example and the development of education programs for citizenship;
8.7 encourage      and      sponsor       designs of development of researches and technology for sustainable development, interacting actively with the academic and scientific community;
8.8 interact in partnership with educational institutions, for the improvement of qualification of the labor force in the sector of oil, natural gas and energy;
8.9 refuse any corrupt and bribery practices, keeping formal procedures for control and consequences of any transgressions;
8.10    refuse support and contributions to political parties or political campaigns of candidates for elective offices;
8.11    accept and contribute with inspections and controls of the Government.
COMPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
 I. This  Ethics  Code  covers   the   members of Boards of Directors, Fiscal Councils, Executive Boards, the occupants of managerial functions, employees, trainees and service providers of Petrobras system, as individual and collective commitment of each and all of them to comply with it and promote its compliance in all actions of the productive chain of Petrobras System and in its relations with all interested parties.
II. The employees of Petrobras System will formally acknowledge this Code, which will be widely disseminated through printed and electronic means.
III.    The violation of the principles and commitments expressed in this  Code may result in the adoption of disciplinary measures, in accordance with the standards of the companies comprising Petrobras System.
IV. Petrobras System will submit this Ethics Code to periodic reviews, with transparency and interested parties participation.
V.  Ombudsman agencies or instances eventually responsible for processing complaints of ethics transgressions will preserve the anonymity of the complainant, in order to avoid retaliation against them and it will notice them of the measures taken.
Version approved by the Board of Petrobras on 11/09/2006, Minutes DE 4.613, Sheet No 1109; and by the Board of Directors on 11/29/2006, Minutes CA 1.281, Sheet No 35.
 
Petrofac
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Saudi Arabia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Living Our Code
Safe    
Ethical       Innovative     Responsive
Quality and cost
conscious   
Driven to deliver        
Our Code of Conduct is founded on our six values. It provides practical guidance for most of the situations you are likely
to encounter day to day. Occasionally there are no clear rules to follow. In these circumstances, you should be guided by our values:
Safe
Nothing is more important to Petrofac than safety; from our people,
customers and the communities we work in, to the integrity of the assets and facilities we build, maintain and run.
Ethical
We aspire to the highest standards of ethical behaviour. This means
doing the right thing for our customers, employees, communities and the environment in which we operate.
Innovative
It is in our nature to think differently, use our initiative, and positively
challenge convention. From the commercial to the technical, we seek out new ways to add value.
Responsive
We take time to understand what our customers want and tailor our services
to meet those needs. We are quick to respond when challenges arise and do everything in our power to overcome them.
Quality and cost conscious
We work to optimise value for our customers, without compromising
quality and integrity.
Driven to deliver
We have a relentless focus on delivery and exceeding our customers’
expectations.
Our Compliance function
At Petrofac, everyone is responsible for compliance.

We have a Compliance function that helps the business      meet its ethical and regulatory obligations, monitors any  ethics and compliance risks
the Company faces, and determines, in partnership with our business, the correct response. The Compliance function sets policies, procedures, processes, training and communications to ensure the Company meets the highest ethical standards.
Our Speak Up programme (details on page 8) is managed by the Compliance function, which oversees investigations of reported Code breaches, misconduct or infringement
of our standards.
The Group Head of Compliance represents Petrofac with third parties, including regulators and government officials, on
all matters concerning ethics and compliance.
Complying with laws and regulations
We all must comply with the laws and regulations that apply to us, wherever we operate.
Everyone has a responsibility
to ensure that all laws that apply to us and to those rendering services to us, including, but
not limited to, international trade, import, export, immigration
and employment laws, are being observed and followed.
This Code is intended as a framework to help you be compliant. Whilst it cannot cover all possible rules, regulations, issues or instances, it should give clarity on the way we are
all expected to operate. Should you need any further guidance, please contact Compliance.
 “We all must comply with the laws and regulations that apply to us, wherever we operate.”
Should I follow local law or the Code?
We must obey the laws and rules of the countries where we operate while following the Code. To make it simple:
    always obey local laws
    if in doubt, follow the more stringent standard
Our Speak Up programme

8   How to report concerns through Speak Up
8   Protecting those who Speak Up

Our Speak Up programme
We encourage everyone involved with Petrofac, whether or not an employee, to Speak Up if they have concerns about unethical behaviour or activity, or questions about our Code.
Any breach or suspected breach of the Code must be reported immediately. Reports can be made to your line manager, his or her supervisor, HR, Legal,
or Compliance functions. For urgent matters, such as safety, speak to a local manager to ensure prompt action is taken.
If you are in any doubt, seek advice from your line manager, HR, Legal or Compliance,
or contact our Speak Up confidential helpline.
How to report concerns through Speak Up
There are many ways to  report concerns. To speak to an operator trained in ethics and compliance, follow the instructions on the inside back
cover of this book; calls are free
of charge. Lines are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
In some of our locations, a local operator will assist you. Or you can send an email to: SpeakUpPetrofac@expolink. co.uk
You may also report any concerns by accessing the following web link www.expolink.co.uk using the password ‘petrofac’.
Your report will be treated in confidence and investigated thoroughly. Your confidentiality will be protected and you
will be kept informed of developments if you wish. You may report anonymously.
Protecting those who Speak Up
Reporting concerns or suspected misconduct in good faith, or taking part in an investigation will not adversely affect your position in Petrofac in any way. We do not tolerate retaliation against those
 “If you believe that any aspect of our Code may have been breached you should
Speak Up in complete confi  ence.”
who have raised issues and
will take action against anyone who behaves in this manner or who negatively affects a Code of Conduct investigation, or breaches confidentiality.
Acts of retaliation may involve threatening or bullying someone to prevent them reporting a breach of the Code or taking part in an investigation. Any claim of retaliation will be investigated and appropriate action taken. Retaliatory behaviour is a disciplinary matter which could lead to dismissal.
If you or, to your knowledge, any other person have suffered retaliation, contact Speak Up or speak to the Compliance
function. Your line manager, his or her supervisor, HR or Legal functions will also be able to help you and may be involved  in any subsequent investigation.
 What should I report?
All violations or suspected violations of the Code should be reported.
How can I be sure that my job will not
be at risk if I report a Code violation?
We will protect anyone who reports a Code violation in good faith.
Ensuring safe, secure and compliant operations
12 Safety, health and environment
 Ensuring safe,  secure and compliant operations
Safety, health and environment
Safety is one of Petrofac’s
core values and our first priority. We strive to provide a safe working environment for our employees, our contractors  and all who come into contact with Petrofac. We do this by seeking to ensure the integrity of all plant and equipment, controlling the risks inherent
in oil and gas operations, and providing training to safeguard our people, both field and office based.
Our policies and working practices support our goal of zero accidents and encourage transparent reporting. Everyone needs to be aware of risks and take steps to reduce them.
We operate in strict accordance with requirements to minimise our impact on the environment and meet our goal of zero environmental incidents.
We work actively to reduce our global carbon footprint, and that of our customers, by measuring and driving down emissions, waste and discharges, using energy efficiently and meeting agreed environmental targets.
Further information and policy details are available on the Group intranet portal,
PetroNet, or our website www.petrofac.com/compliance
“Safety is one of Petrofac’s core values and our fi st priority.”
    work safely and protect those around you
    stop any unsafe work
    comply with laws and follow policies and standards
    ensure you are competent and fit to carry out your work
    know the emergency procedures that apply where you work
    report any accident, injury, illness, unsafe or unhealthy condition, incident, spill, unplanned release or apparent breach of law or Petrofac requirements to local management or to the Speak Up helpline
    understand the risks within your area of responsibility and ensure that appropriate controls are in place to mitigate them
    ask for help and advice if you are unclear about your HSE or operating responsibilities
    report for work if your performance is impaired by alcohol or any drug, whether legal or illegal
    threaten, intimidate or act violently towards anyone
    bring weapons onto Petrofac premises

Our people
16  Equal opportunity
17  Building a diverse workforce
20 Promoting tolerance and respect
22 Zero tolerance on drugs and alcohol
 Our people
Petrofac is an international business, proud of the diverse cultures our people represent. Through our shared values, we strive to create an inclusive culture founded on respect, responsibility, trust and high standards. We expect all who work with us to demonstrate these values and to act with integrity at all times.
Equal opportunity
We recruit, reward and develop our people based on merit regardless of race, nationality, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status or disability. We value our people and treat everyone who works for or with Petrofac fairly and without discrimination.
Through our training and professional development programmes, we help our employees achieve their professional goals and manage their personal priorities.
To find out more about diversity and inclusion or equal
opportunities at Petrofac, contact your local HR manager or read our statement of commitment
on the Group intranet portal, PetroNet, or our website www.petrofac.com/compliance
Petrofac adheres to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact relating to:
    labour standards
    discrimination
    child labour
    forced labour
For details of the United Nations Global Compact policies, visit www.unglobalcompact.org
  “We value our people and treat everyone who works for
or with Petrofac fairly and without discrimination.”
Building a diverse workforce
Our success is built on a talented workforce, delivering locally and supported by processes that aspire to be globally consistent.
We believe our focus on local delivery will create sustainable growth for our business and contribute to the economic success of the communities where we operate.
We are developing operational centres which are driving recruitment programmes, creating
collaborative partnerships with local companies, and building relationships within local supply chains. By developing skilled
in-country workforces, we are transferring know-how and extending employment opportunities, making a positive impact on the people and places where we work.
Our people
Use the following guidelines when dealing with recruitment, development or wider people issues:
    comply with employment laws
    only make decisions on recruitment, development and promotion of employees based on merit, assessing their qualifications, skills
and achievements
    require third parties – contractors, agents or joint venture partners – when dealing with Petrofac to act in a way that reflects fair treatment and equal opportunity, and provide appropriate conditions
of work
    report any breaches of the law or the Code
    allow race, colour, religion, gender, age, nationality, disability, sexual orientation or marital status to influence decisions relating to employees
    allow personal relationships to influence employment matters
    hire or permit the use of child or forced labour
    recruit a relative or a close associate of either a government official or a third party with whom
Petrofac has a relationship, without first speaking to Compliance
 “Our success is built on a talented workforce united by strong values.”
Do we have to recruit local workers when it
would be quicker to use experienced expatriates?
We are committed to developing and employing local people. You need to make sure that the recruitment process is unbiased and that you hire the best possible candidates. At all times, keep safety, effectiveness and efficiency of our operations front of mind. Whenever possible, aim to have a  diverse candidate pool.
Our people
Promoting tolerance and respect
We strive to treat everyone  fairly, with courtesy and respect. We do not tolerate harassment, abusive or inappropriate language or intimidating or discriminatory behaviour in
any part of our business. Harassment is any behaviour which is unwelcome or offensive to the recipient and undermines their dignity.
We expect third parties working with or for us to abide by the same principles.
We will support any employee who reports bullying or harassment. We will also take action against anyone who victimises a person making
a complaint. Retaliation, whether actual or threatened, is a serious disciplinary matter and will not be tolerated.
If you experience or witness bullying or harassment you should report it directly to a Petrofac manager or our Speak Up helpline. Your complaint will be investigated and appropriate actions taken.
“We strive to treat everyone fairly, with courtesy and respect.”
    promote a harassment-free workplace
    treat your colleagues and third parties with respect
    be sensitive to cultural differences and be prepared to adapt your behaviour
 
    assume that what is acceptable in your culture is acceptable in another
    make insults or tell jokes
of a racial, ethnic, religious, age-related or sexual nature
    distribute by any means or display offensive material, including inappropriate pictures or cartoons
Our people
Zero tolerance on drugs and alcohol
We operate a zero tolerance policy on drugs and alcohol across all Petrofac sites. You must comply with the detailed guidelines and procedures for the operations in which you are involved. Do not undertake any work if you are taking any drugs which could impair your ability to do the job safely.
From time to time we carry out random testing, and anyone suspected of being under the influence of drugs or alcohol may be dismissed from site immediately. This is a safety issue – drugs and alcohol consumption cause serious risks to people and operations.
We will support anyone with problems relating to drugs or alcohol to find appropriate help and treatment. Contact your local HR team or our Speak Up helpline to talk to someone in confidence.
I suspect a colleague is coming to work
intoxicated. What should I do?
We are all responsible for maintaining a safe working environment. Anyone coming to work impaired by drugs or alcohol puts us all at risk. You should speak to the local HR team or contact the Speak Up helpline. Your colleague may need specialist help.
 “We operate a zero tolerance policy on drugs and alcohol.”
    report anyone whose work performance you suspect is affected by alcohol or by controlled legal or illegal drugs
    seek help if you or a colleague have problems related to drugs or alcohol
    bring drugs or alcohol on site
    report for work if your ability to perform your job is impaired
Working with third parties
26  Working with contractors, suppliers and business partners
28 Eliminating bribery and corruption
28  Combatting facilitation
30 Gifts and entertainment
32 Competing fairly and openly 34 Avoiding conflicts of interest 35 Personal shareholdings
 
Working with third parties
Working with contractors, suppliers and business partners
We seek honest, open relationships with all our business partners, based on fairness, trust and respect.
Always follow Petrofac’s due diligence process, which is based on transparency and objectivity, when selecting contractors and suppliers.
We expect all who work with Petrofac, including contractors, subcontractors, joint venture partners, agents and other third parties to act in a way that is consistent with local laws and our Code, and to follow its principles. We encourage third parties working with us or for us to Speak Up in respect of any violation of our Code.
 “We expect all who work with Petrofac to act in a way that is consistent with our Code.”
    be objective and follow  the standard due diligence process when selecting third parties
    seek to ensure that third parties comply with all legal requirements. Communicate Petrofac’s standards and policies to them. Require that they operate within our values and report any violation to us
    report any activity or suspected activity that
is not in line with our Code or working practices
    follow local laws, regulations and requirements
    follow the Code
    promote the Speak Up helpline
    accept gifts or entertainment from third parties involved in tendering for our business
    offer any gifts or entertainment to third parties with whom we are tendering
    share confidential information from one supplier/contractor with another supplier/contractor
    ignore evidence of wrongdoing by a third party representing Petrofac
 Working with third parties
Eliminating bribery and corruption
Petrofac does not engage in
or condone any form of bribery or corruption. In most countries, corruption is a criminal offence which carries severe penalties, including imprisonment. You must comply with these laws.

Everyone working for or with Petrofac – employees, agents, subcontractors, partners or suppliers – is forbidden from making, offering or receiving any payment or other form
of inducement which may be construed as an attempt to secure business advantage for the Company. Senior members of staff who purposely ignore evidence of corruption may be deemed to have participated
in the corrupt activity.
Combatting facilitation Never offer or agree to facilitation payments for government
officials to secure or speed up
routine activities, such as issuing permits, visas or releasing goods held in customs.
No one working for or with Petrofac should assume that Petrofac’s interests require anyone to offer bribes or facilitation payments.
Always follow Petrofac’s due diligence procedures rigorously when selecting and monitoring third parties including suppliers, contractors, agents and partners, to ensure they are reputable and suitably qualifi d for the job. All third parties working for or with Petrofac are required to adhere to our Code and follow local laws. For details of our due diligence procedures speak to your line management team or visit the intranet.
 “Petrofac does not engage in or condone any form of bribery
or corruption.”
You must follow our Standard
for the Prevention of Bribery and Corruption, as well as the anti-bribery and corruption laws of the country in which you operate, and/or are based. Anyone suspected of involvement in bribery and corruption will be investigated and, if found guilty, will face
disciplinary proceedings, which may lead to dismissal, and possible prosecution.
You will find detailed information on Petrofac’s Standard for
the Prevention of Bribery and Corruption on the Group intranet portal, PetroNet, on our website, www.petrofac.com/compliance, or by contacting members of the Compliance or Legal functions.
 It is the custom in this location to make
small payments to obtain a faster service. Is this wrong?
The fact that it is customary does not make it right.
These payments can be seen as facilitation. You are likely to be breaching local law as well as Petrofac’s Code, putting yourself and the Company at risk.
 Working with third parties
Gifts and entertainment Do not make, accept or allow gifts, money, loans, entertainment
or any form of special treatment,
which may imply or be perceived as implying that the ultimate  goal is to influence business decisions. This applies equally  to third parties acting on behalf of Petrofac.
Accepting or offering gifts and entertainment may be seen as an attempt to achieve more for favourable terms – such as better prices or conditions.
It may appear to compromise the professional independence of our people and those who deal with us, and, if not in line with our standard, risks disciplinary action. We never award or secure contracts through inappropriate behaviour or relationships.
Excessive gifts or entertainment may leave our people open
to charges of making or accepting bribes.
 A new supplier has just given me a valuable
gift. Can I accept it?
You cannot accept it if:
1.  we are engaged in a tendering or contracting process with the supplier;
2.  it violates our policies on gifts and entertainment, or local laws; or
3.  you believe some benefit is expected in return
 “We never award or secure contracts through inappropriate relationships.”
    refer to the Standard for the Prevention of Bribery and Corruption when accepting, offering or refusing a gift or invitation
    follow the guidelines and thresholds set out in the Standard
    record the activity accurately in the gifts and entertainment register
    seek clarity and guidance from local management, Compliance or Legal functions
    use common sense and judgement
    keep accurate books and records, and follow internal controls so that company funds are not used unlawfully
 
    offer gifts, entertainment or make charitable donations in the name of Petrofac that break the law, local regulations or Petrofac’s Standard or Code
    request gifts and entertainment, or agree to offer a gift or entertainment
    offer to accept cash, loans or cash equivalent
    accept a gift or entertainment that may raise a conflict between personal interests and professional duties
    offer to pay for non-business- related travel costs
    offer to pay the travel costs of an accompanying individual without the prior approval of Compliance
Working with third parties
Competing fairly and openly
Any attempt to manipulate a competitive bidding process may be viewed as anti-competitive behaviour.
Competition laws prohibit this behaviour and carry severe penalties for non-compliance.
The exchange of commercial information about or between Petrofac and third parties may also violate laws and regulations. Be particularly careful when meeting with our competitors
or exchanging information with and about them.
The definition of what constitutes anti-competitive behaviour varies between countries – always seek advice on the laws that apply
in your area.
Following these basic rules will help ensure we maintain
transparency and good practice.
 Can I share price information with
a competitor who is also a customer?
Price information cannot usually be shared. In this situation, discuss only the terms of the transaction in which you are both involved.
 “We operate transparently, fairly and within the law.”
    ensure you and your teams are aware of local competition laws and always work within them
    maintain independence in all aspects of a bidding decision
    keep records of any meetings, conversations or dealings you might have with our competitors.
Advise your colleagues to do the same
    stop a conversation if anti- competitive market and/ or competitor-sensitive matters are discussed, and notify the Legal and Compliance functions immediately
 
    exchange information with competitors to fix prices, credit terms or market share
    do not discuss any aspect of a tender with our competitors
    gain information about Petrofac’s competitors through illegal means
– theft, bribery, misrepresentation or hacking into computer systems
    use any information about a competitor (or their actions) that you have received by mistake
    accept any information from colleagues or third parties which you know or have reason to believe has been obtained improperly
Working with third parties
Avoiding confl cts of interest
A conflict of interest arises when personal interests or involvement could impact business decisions or activities. You must disclose any relationship, activity, role or position which could lead to a conflict of interest internally or externally. The disclosure should be made to your line manager, HR, Legal or Compliance.
Activities which may give rise to a conflict of interest
include, but are not limited to, recommending suppliers or candidates, holding outside jobs and affiliations, serving as a director or consultant with an external company, or holding a
financial interest in a competitor, customer or supplier.
You should also ensure that close relatives and others with whom you have a close personal relationship do not report to
you or have any business dealings with you or with anyone reporting to you.
 If you are asked to become a director of another organisation, before accepting it, you
should seek advice and must obtain written approval from the Managing Director of your business unit. Petrofac Managing Directors need the
approval of the Chief Executive of their respective Division; Divisional Chief Executives and the Group Chief Executive require Board approval. Any such appointment must not
conflict with our interests or your ability to perform your duties for Petrofac.
Any investments made by you or by those with whom you have a close and/or personal relationship must not create or appear to create a conflict of interest that could affect your objectivity when making
business decisions that involve Petrofac.
If you are unclear whether an activity poses a conflict of interest, talk to your line manager, HR, Legal or Compliance functions.
 “Avoid activities which may give rise to a conflict of interest.”
Personal shareholdings
Personal shareholdings may also create a conflict of interest. You must seek prior written approval if you, or any member of your immediate family, or someone with whom you have a close and/or personal relationship sells or buys shares in a company which is
a competitor, customer, partner or supplier of any part of the Petrofac Group and:
    is an unquoted company; or
    is a quoted company with a market value below US$100 million at the time of sale or purchase; or
    the shares purchased constitute more than 1% of the issued share capital of a quoted company with a market value of more than US$100 million
    Directors of Petrofac Limited must obtain prior written approval from the Chairman of the Audit Committee before entering into a transaction as
 described above. All other Petrofac employees must have prior written approval from the Chief Executive of their respective Division
Q A national oil
company client has
recommended a local supplier. Must I use them?
It is not uncommon for companies like Petrofac to help develop the local supply chain. However, you must always conduct technical, reputational and financial due diligence on suppliers, whether or not they have been recommended,
and ensure you are satisfied that they meet the necessary requirements.
 Working with third parties
    withdraw from all decision- making where you could be seen to have a conflict of interest
    disclose to your line manager or HR, any outside jobs or affiliations with competitors, customers
or suppliers, or if a close relative works for a competitor, contractor or supplier
    disclose to your line manager or HR, relationships or activities that may be or become a conflict of interest
    seek approval for any external directorships or appointments before accepting them
    recruit, manage or influence the recruitment or management of any close relative or someone
with whom you have a close and/or personal relationship
    work in any capacity for any organisation that you deal with as a Petrofac employee
    invest in supplier companies if you are involved in selecting or negotiating
with them
    accept gifts or entertainment that may create a conflict of interest between you and third parties
    influence the decision making in relation to a new or existing contract, where you may have
a conflict
 “Ensure there is no conflict between your role as a Petrofac employee and outside interests.”
I have been asked to sit on the external
board of a local engineering company. It is not currently a Petrofac contractor although it has worked
for Petrofac clients in the past and may do so again. Can I take up this role?
You must ensure there is no conflict between your role as a Petrofac employee and your potential board role in this company. You should discuss it with your line manager and with HR, particularly if you are in any doubt about a possible conflict of interest. If you
are satisfied that there is no conflict, you should follow the approval process as described in this Code.
Can I hire my brother to work for me?
No. However, if he has the relevant qualifications and experience, you may put forward his name as a potential recruit. You must withdraw from the recruitment process and, if he were to join Petrofac, you, or anyone reporting
to you, could not act as his line manager.
 Working with communities
40 Social investments
Working with communities
Social investments We seek to develop lasting relationships with the
communities in which we work,
respecting local customs and culture, and minimising the impact of our operations. This means operating to high ethical standards and behaving in ways that gain trust and respect.
We respect the rights of and engage with communities,
non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other community groups who work with us.
Our social investment initiatives aim to build strong relationships with our customers and the communities where we operate. Full details of our programme can be found in the Responsibility section of our website, www.petrofac.com/communities
We have been asked to support a local charity
founded by the spouse of a government official. Can we agree to this request?
This is a common request. However, we should only support projects that
fall within the range of our Social Performance
Standard. You must ensure that any possible support is transparently given and documented, and does  not amount to a political contribution, or is made
in exchange for a benefit. Conduct due diligence on any third party before
committing funds or resources.
 “We seek strong relationships and create collaborative partnerships with local communities.”
    treat communities with courtesy and respect their rights
    hire local people who are qualified for the job they are being hired to do
    seek advice from the External Affairs team or local Country Manager before engaging with NGOs or community leaders
    follow the Group Social Performance Standard
    conduct adequate due diligence before agreeing any financial or resource commitment to local initiatives and causes
    avoid conflicts of interest in any involvement with local initiatives and causes
    agree to fund or participate in a community project which would violate our values or any aspect of  this Code
Communications and disclosure
44 Political activities
46 Business communications 46 Media and investor relations 48 Employee share dealing
 Communications and disclosure
Political activities
We do not engage in political activity or make any political contributions, either in cash or
in kind. We may engage in policy debate on issues of legitimate interest to our business. Any communication of this kind  must be conducted through the External Affairs function.
Employees participating in political activity must do so in a personal capacity, in a way that does not conflict with their job and making it clear they  do not represent Petrofac. You must get permission from your line manager or your Country
Manager if you are considering standing for or accepting public office.
 You should not contact or communicate with government officials regarding Petrofac’s business unless it is one of your job responsibilities.
  “We do not engage in political activity or make any political contributions, either in cash or in kind.”
    make sure that any political participation is conducted in a personal capacity
    comply with local laws which regulate political participation
    obtain permission from the Country Manager or line management before standing for public office or representing Petrofac before any government entity
    conduct due diligence on agents and third parties who represent Petrofac  to make sure that they are not engaged in political activities that could harm our reputation
    allow Petrofac funds to be used, either directly or indirectly, for political contributions, including via industry associations or charities
    undertake lobbying activities without authorisation
    use Company resources for political activities
    agree to any trade- lobbying positions or communications without first obtaining the approval of the External Affairs function
Communications and disclosure
Business communications
In business communications, do not mislead or offer speculative opinions or discuss or disseminate any rumours, particularly on sensitive or confidential matters.

Media and investor relations
You must not speak on behalf of Petrofac to the media, investors or analysts about our people or our business,
unless it is your job or you have been authorised to do so.
Do not enter into ‘off the record’ conversations with any third party. Any approach from a third party seeking confidential or sensitive information about Petrofac should be referred
to External Affairs, Investor Relations, Legal or Compliance.
In business communications, do not mislead or offer speculative opinions, particularly on sensitive or confidential matters. Only authorised employees should respond to enquiries from investors, brokers, analysts or the media.
 “We engage with investors and the media through our External Affairs and Investor Relations functions.”
    seek advice from the External Affairs or Investor Relations functions before talking about Company affairs to an external person
    obtain management approval before agreeing to speaking engagements on behalf of Petrofac
    ask your line manager, the External Affairs team or a subject matter expert to review your speech
or presentation before the event
    disclose financial or other confidential or proprietary information about Petrofac’s business
 Communications and disclosure
Employee share dealing Anyone, employees or third parties who hold unpublished
and price-sensitive information
about Petrofac are restricted from trading shares in the Company (this includes buying, selling or transferring shares), sharing this information with others or inducing others to act upon this information. Failing to observe this is a breach of the law. This prohibition also applies to third parties.
If you or your immediate family hold or wish to acquire Petrofac shares, you must follow our Share Dealing Code, which is available on the Group intranet portal, PetroNet, or on our website www.petrofac.com/ compliance. The Share Dealing Code sets out the restrictions  in detail and also provides guidance for those participating in the Company share schemes or those who have been identified and notified as a Restricted Person.
In certain circumstances, if you are in possession of information that is not readily available
to the market, dealing in the shares of another company with which Petrofac is transacting, may also be considered insider trading by regulatory authorities.
Passing on this information to another person, who subsequently trades or deals
in the shares of that third party company, is also prohibited.
Any breach of the above may be investigated by the regulatory authorities and could result in legal action including fines and imprisonment.
 “Never deal in Petrofac shares if you believe you may be in possession of inside information.”
What type of information would
preclude me from selling or buying Petrofac shares?
This relates to confidential information which you may have access to in your role
at or with Petrofac. It includes but is not limited to:
    Company fi ncial results
    significant corporate transactions, including mergers and acquisition activity or changes in the Company’s share structure
    significant contract awards or agreements, or the loss of a significant contract
    changes in management
    significant HSE incidents, including environmental damages
    legal disputes
 If you are in any doubt or
are concerned that inside information may be used inappropriately, you must contact the Company Secretarial, Compliance or the Legal functions. The Employee Share Dealing Code has further detail and advice, a copy of which can be found on the Group intranet portal, PetroNet, or on our website www.petrofac.com/compliance
 Communications and disclosure
A contact at a supplier’s firm has
told me about a major new contract that his firm has won and which is yet to be announced. Can I buy shares in this company?
No. Your contact has passed on confidential information and in doing so has made you an ‘insider’. You must not pass this information on and must wait until the new contract is publicly announced before buying the shares.
 Are there any restrictions on what
I can do as a member of one of the Company share plans?
Any employee who is a participant in the Petrofac Discretionary Share Plans must not deal in Company shares or encourage anyone else to deal if they have inside information or have been notified they are a
Restricted Person. Please note that this restriction also applies to those employees who do not participate in the Petrofac Discretionary Share Plans.
In these circumstances, permission to deal must be obtained in advance of any dealing.
 “You must always protect inside information from disclosure.”
    protect inside information from disclosure
    notify your manager if you inadvertently hear a discussion or read
documents which could be considered inside information
    follow the Employee Share Dealing Code
    use privileged information to benefit personally from share trading, or reveal confidential information
to others to allow them to benefit from share dealing
    buy, sell or transfer Petrofac shares either directly or through family or other connections if you have inside information
    disclose confidential Petrofac information outside the Company without approval
 Protecting privacy, information and assets
54 Acting responsibly
 Protecting privacy, information and assets
Acting responsibly Everyone who works with or  for Petrofac is responsible for
safeguarding Company assets.
These include funds, equipment, software, information and intellectual property.
You must protect Company funds from misuse, loss, fraud or theft. Ensure all claims, expense reports, bills or invoices are correct and submitted on time.
Never falsify records or misrepresent facts.
Fraud is unlawful. Anyone found to be acting in a fraudulent manner will be dismissed and may face prosecution.
You must ensure that any Company property you use or supervise is not damaged, wasted or used for any purpose other than legitimate Petrofac business.
Keep your passwords secure and change them regularly.
 Always use email, internet services and computer equipment in line with the information on our website/ PetroNet for the use of information systems.
You must ensure that all Petrofac data is kept confidential and that appropriate controls  are in place to store, handle, distribute and use such data.
Personal data must be used only for the advancement of established business processes.
You must keep and help maintain the confidentiality of all investigations, internal or external.
You may have incidental and occasional personal use of company systems and equipment. For more
information on what is acceptable usage, refer to PetroNet or the Compliance website.
All material produced using Petrofac IT equipment and property will not be deemed private property.
 “Protect Company funds from misuse, loss, fraud or theft.”
Can I use the internet at work for
personal business?
Petrofac assets should be used for Petrofac business. We recognise that limited use of Company equipment
during the working day may be necessary. However, never use the internet to visit sites or post information that would bring you or Petrofac into disrepute.
Protecting privacy, information and assets
    protect personal and confidential information, not allowing unauthorised disclosure
    ensure Company property and equipment are secure against unauthorised usage, damage or theft
    report promptly any loss or misuse of Petrofac equipment or materials
    access only legitimate websites and information when using Company equipment, whether at
or outside of work
    disclose confidential Petrofac information
    use Company property, systems or equipment for private business or profit
    access pornographic, sexually explicit or sexually exploitative images or text
    post materials or messages that promote violence, hatred, terrorism or intolerance
    download and install content from the internet without approval from the IT department
If you believe that the Petrofac Code of Conduct has been breached, you should Speak Up.
Call free of charge and Speak Up in the language of your choice.
Email
SpeakUpPetrofac@expolink.co.uk
Report online www.expolink.co.uk Password: petrofac

PETRONAS
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Malaysia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Combined

Petronas Code of Conduct and Business Ethics
The PETRONAS Code of Conduct and Business Ethics is a general reference for use in all the countries in which PETRONAS conducts operations. It does not describe all applicable laws or PETRONAS policies, or give full details on any particular law or policy. It does
not constitute legal advice. It does not constitute or create a contract of employment. PETRONAS reserves the right to modify, revise, cancel or waive any policy, procedure or condition without notice and without revision of the Code. Moreover, the provisions of the Code may be modified by PETRONAS to adapt them tolocal laws and conditions.
©PETROLIAM NASIONAL BERHAD (PETRONAS) 2013. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise) without the permission of the copyright owner.
General BusIness PrInCIPles
We at PETRONAS are committed to making our company a leading oil and gas multinational of choice. We will base our progress upon the lessons and experiences that transformed PETRONAS into a versatile business entity, meeting the challenges of the new millennium, and maintaining the unique characteristics of a national petroleum company.
While we will maintain flexibility to adapt to changing conditions, the nature of our business requires a focused, long-term approach and the need to balance risks and rewards. We will consistently strive to improve through learning, sharing and implementing best practices. We will be disciplined and selective in evaluating the range of our capital investment opportunities. We will strive to apply and extend technology through business-driven research and technical support and assume leadership in selective areas. We will implement appropriate measures to protect our personnel, physical assets, intellectual property and reputation.
In our globalisation quest, we will seek opportunities in regions of the world where we can create value. We will work with existing and new partners who share our values, philosophy and business approach.
To this end, we aspire to achieve superior financial and operating results while adhering to the highest standards of business conduct. These objectives provide the foundation for our commitment to those with whom we interact. PETRONAS recognises five core areas of responsibility:
shareholders
We are committed to creating and enhancing long-term shareholder value using the principles of value-based management.
emPloyees
The high calibre of our workforce is a valuable competitive advantage. To build on this human capital we will strive to hire and retain the most qualified people available, offer them good and competitive terms and conditions of service, and maximise their opportunities for success through training and development. We are committed to maintaining a safe work environment enriched by diversity and characterised by open communication, trust, fair treatment, and respect.
Customers
Success depends upon our ability to consistently satisfy changing customer preferences. We pledge to continuously provide products and services that conform to requirements of both our internal and external customers.
BusIness Partners
We will seek mutually beneficial relationships with our counterparts, contractors, suppliers, financial institutions, and other entities with whom we do business.
CommunItIes
We pledge that PETRONAS will be a responsible corporate citizen wherever it operates and will take into consideration the needs and aspiration of local communities.
Our measures of success are the extent to which we meet these commitments, the long-term value we create for our shareholders, the pride of our employees in their accomplishments, the satisfaction of our customers and all those with whom we do business, and the extent to which communities, both local and international, judge our activities as beneficial.
IntroduCtIon
This Code of Conduct and Business Ethics emphasizes and advances the principles of discipline, good conduct,
professionalism, loyalty, integrity and cohesiveness that are critical to the success and well-being of the PETRONAS group. This Code is part of the PETRONAS group’s overall corporate enhancement programme. It reflects the increasing need for effective corporate governance compliance measures in the conduct of the group’s business domestically and worldwide.
Your compliance with and support for the letter and spirit of this Code is vital to PETRONAS’ continued success. Your failure to comply may have severe consequences for the group and may result in disciplinary action against you.
In the event of any doubts or questions concerning the application or interpretation of this Code, please seek advice from your Head of Department, Human Resource Department or Legal Department, or the PETRONAS group Corporate Governance and International Compliance Unit of the Legal Division (“CGIC”). You may also refer to the “PETRONAS CoBE Guide,” which provides illustrative guidance concerning the application of the Code in a variety of practical situations.
PART I
Core Values and Culture
 PART I
Core Values and Culture
1.  aPPlICatIon
1.1.
This Code of Conduct and Business Ethics (the “Code” or “CoBE”) is intended to apply to every employee of every PETRONAS group company worldwide. It is also intended to apply to every director (executive and non-executive) for those companies, except as otherwise stated in this Code. Joint venture companies in which PETRONAS is
a non-controlling co-venturer and associated companies are encouraged to adopt these or similar principles and standards.
1.2.
Although this Code is specifically written for PETRONAS group employees and directors, PETRONAS expects that contractors, sub- contractors, consultants, agents, representatives and others performing work or services for or on behalf
of PETRONAS group companies will comply with it in relevant part when performing such work or services. Failure by a contractor, sub-contractor, consultant, agent, representative or other service
provider to comply with the principles and standards set out in this Code may result in the termination of the non-complying party’s relationship with PETRONAS and other adverse consequences.
1.3.
Where this Code calls for a report to a PETRONAS unit or official, contractors, sub-contractors,
consultants, agents, representatives or other service providers may, in lieu of contacting such unit or official, instead contact the Corporate Governance and International Compliance Unit
of the PETRONAS Legal Division (CGIC), the contact details for which are set out at the back of this Code. Where this Code calls for a report to a Head of Department or the head of an operating unit to be made by  a director of a PETRONAS company,
the report may instead be made to the company secretary for the relevant company.
1.4.
This Code is prepared in both English and Bahasa Malaysia, and may appear in other languages. In the event of
a conflict, the English version will govern.
Core Values and Culture
Duties of Good Faith, Fidelity, Diligence and Integrity
 Workplace Culture and Environment
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
1.5.
This Code will be implemented (with certain local adaptations) on a worldwide basis in a phased roll out,
commencing with its entry into effect for Malaysian group of companies on 1 April 2012. In that regard, it replaces the PETRONAS Code of Conduct and Discipline and the PETRONAS Guidelines for Business Conduct. Any misconduct committed before the effective date of this Code for your company will be dealt with under the Code of Conduct and Discipline (or other applicable policies and terms and conditions of service) in effect for your company at the time of the misconduct.
1.6.
If a law conflicts with a rule or policy set out in this Code, you should comply with the law. If you perceive that a provision of this Code (as supplemented or modified for your jurisdiction by a Country Supplement, as described below) conflicts with  the law in your jurisdiction, you should consult with your Head of Department, Human Resource Department or Legal Department, rather than disregard the Code without consultation. However, if a local custom or policy conflicts with this Code, you are called upon to comply with this Code. If you have any questions about any of these conflicts, please consult your Head  of Department, Human Resource Department or Legal Department.
1.7.
The provisions of this Code may be amended or waived by PETRONAS from time-to-time in PETRONAS’ sole discretion. PETRONAS expects that waivers would only be granted in exceptional circumstances and then only in keeping with applicable law and PETRONAS’ policies and procedures. The provisions of this Code may be supplemented or
modified for your jurisdiction through local guidelines (Country Supplement) that have been approved through
the CGIC. In particular, provisions concerning disciplinary procedures and actions for your jurisdiction may be set out in a Country Supplement for your jurisdiction. If no such provisions are set out in a Country Supplement for your jurisdiction,  the standard disciplinary rules and practices for dealing with violations
of company policy in your jurisdiction will apply, in every instance subject
to the requirements of applicable law. In some jurisdictions, the Code may be implemented through a Staff Handbook or similar manual or document, which may address
additional matters beyond the scope of the Code. Please contact your Head of Department, Human Resource Department, Legal Department or
the CGIC for information about the Country Supplement in effect for your jurisdiction (if any). Any such Country Supplement will be considered part of this Code for your jurisdiction.
1.8.
This Code does not identify or set out every law, policy or procedure that may apply to you in the performance of your role. You are responsible for informing yourself concerning laws and other PETRONAS policies and procedures that apply to you as a result of your role with PETRONAS. This Code does not constitute legal advice.
1.9.
To help you understand and interpret this Code, a user-friendly guide to the Code titled “The PETRONAS CoBE Guide” will be made available. You may obtain a copy of that guide from your Head of Department or Human Resource Department. In the event of any conflict between that guide and this Code, this Code (as supplemented or modified for your jurisdiction) will govern.
2.  CorPorate Values and Culture
2.1.
PETRONAS is committed to the highest standards of integrity, openness and accountability in the conduct of the group’s business and operations. PETRONAS seeks to conduct its affairs in an ethical,
responsible and transparent manner.
2.2.
As an employee in the PETRONAS group, you have a duty to serve PETRONAS with good faith, fidelity, diligence and integrity. You are required to act in the best interests of PETRONAS and to refrain from engaging in conduct or activities which may adversely affect the best interests of PETRONAS. You are at all times required to:
    conscientiously maintain the highest degree of integrity,
    always exercise proper care and judgment,
    avoid confl of interest, and
    refrain from taking advantage
of your position or exercising your authority to further your own personal interest at the expense of PETRONAS.
You may not conduct yourself in a manner that might undermine or that is likely to destroy or seriously damage PETRONAS’ confidence and trust in you. These duties are without limitation on duties imposed on you by law.
Core Values and Culture
Duties of Good Faith, Fidelity, Diligence and Integrity
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
2.3.
PETRONAS expects that, throughout your time of service as a PETRONAS employee, you will: -

a)  strive towards a high standard of professionalism;

b)  give your undivided loyalty and devotion to PETRONAS at all times and on all occasions;

c)  serve with honesty and integrity, goodwill and courtesy;

d)  display group cohesiveness based on oneness of purpose together with a caring attitude for the individual;

e)  uphold the duty of care for the interests and reputation of PETRONAS;

f)  display a high sense of discipline, cooperativeness and diligence in carrying out your duties;

g)  act consistently to maintain PETRONAS’ confidence and trust in you;

h)  promote creativity and new approaches in the course of carrying out your work; and

i)  comply with applicable laws, regulations and PETRONAS policies and procedures.
 
3.  defInItIons 3.1.
Where the context or construction requires, all words applied in plural will be deemed to include the singular, and vice versa; the masculine will include the feminine and neuter, and vice versa; and the present tense will include the past and the future tense, and vice versa.
3.2.
References to “you” in this Code refer to any person to whom this Code applies. Where more
specific references are used (such as “employee”), the more specific reference is intended.
3.3.
For purposes of this Code, the term “family/household” includes your spouse(s), children (including step- children and adopted children), parents, step-parents, siblings, step- siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, in-laws, uncles, aunts, nieces, nephews, and first cousins, as well as other persons who are members of your household.
3.4.
For purposes of this Code, the term “employee” means any person who is in the employment of PETRONAS
including but not limited to executives, non-executives, secretaries, secondees and individuals on direct hire.
3.5.
The term “PETRONAS” means PETROLIAM NASIONAL BERHAD
(PETRONAS) and its subsidiaries and controlled companies. The expression “PETRONAS” is used for convenience where references are made to PETRONAS companies in general.
The companies in which PETROLIAM NASIONAL BERHAD (PETRONAS) has
direct or indirect shareholding are distinct legal entities.
PART II
dutIes of Good faIth, fIdelIty, dIlIGenCe and InteGrIty
 PART II
dutIes of Good faIth, fIdelIty, dIlIGenCe and InteGrIty
Part II a: CONFLICT OF INTEREST
 
1.  duty reGardInG aVoIdanCe of ConflICt of Interest

1.1.
A conflict of interest arises in any situation in which an individual is  in a position to take advantage of his or her role at PETRONAS for his or her personal benefit, including the benefit of his or her family and friends. A conflict of interest can make it difficult for an individual to
fulfill his or her duties impartially and correctly. A conflict of interest can exist even if it results in no unethical or improper acts. Even the appearance of improper infl in your decision- making may be an issue. A conflict
of interest will undermine the values of good faith, fidelity, diligence and integrity in the performance of your duties and obligations as expected by PETRONAS. You must therefore avoid conflicts of interest between
your personal dealings and your duties and responsibilities in the conduct of PETRONAS’ business. In particular,
the use of PETRONAS office position, confidential information, assets
and other PETRONAS resources for personal gain, or for the advantage of others with whom you are associated, is prohibited.
 
1.2.
The situations under which conflicts of interest may arise include, but are not limited to:

a)  when you, in the exercise of  your authority, give preference to your interests or the interests of
your family/household members, associates or friends rather than to the interests of PETRONAS;

b)  when you are in a position to influence decisions that are to be made by PETRONAS with respect to dealings with a business, enterprise or entity owned or partially owned by you, your family/ household members, associates or friends; and

c)  when you compete with or against PETRONAS.
Core Values and Culture
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
Workplace Culture and Environment
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
1.3.
In certain instances, a conflict of interest that has been fully disclosed to PETRONAS may be tolerated by PETRONAS (for example, because measures are taken to ensure that
it poses no risks to PETRONAS).  Any conflict situations should be cleared with your Human Resource Department (or, in case of directors,
with the relevant company secretary). A failure to disclose fully the nature and scope of the conflict of interest may result in disciplinary action against you.
2.  InVolVement In BusIness Where you or your famIly/ household haVe a dIreCt or IndIreCt Interest
2.1.
You, the members of your family/ household and your or their nominees and trustees, and any account or entity over which you or they have influence or control, must not promote the formation of any business, firm, corporation or
company and/or own, either directly or indirectly, shares or other forms of beneficial interest (hereinafter referred to as “Equity”) in: -

a)  privately held entities which derive any income or receive any payment from contractual or other business arrangements with PETRONAS;
 

b)  privately held entities listed
in PETRONAS’ lists of registered contractors, even if the entities concerned do not derive any income or receive any payment from contractual or other business arrangements with PETRONAS; or

c)  publicly held entities in which you or a member of your family/ household holds a greater than 1% ownership interest and with respect to which you have the authority to make decisions in the course of your work at PETRONAS.

2.2.
Should a situation arise (for example as a result of inheritance or marriage) whereby you (or a member of your family/household) become, directly or indirectly, the owner of Equity in any entities identified above, you will be considered to be in a potential conflict of interest situation and you will be under a duty, as soon as you become aware of the situation, to inform
your Head of Department or your Human Resource Department (or, in the case of directors, the relevant company secretary) in writing of the
circumstances. You must then consult with PETRONAS concerning the
most appropriate way of preventing or overcoming the conflict of interest. Following such consultation,
PETRONAS may give such instructions to you as it deems appropriate, which may include requiring you or other persons to dispose of the Equity in such entities.
Your failure to inform PETRONAS when a conflict of interest (or potential conflict of interest situation as described above) becomes known to you and/or failure to comply with the requirements of PETRONAS will be deemed to be a conflict of interest for which appropriate disciplinary action may be taken against you.
Conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest which have been fully disclosed and which are formally permitted by PETRONAS will not constitute violations of this Code.
3.  IllustratIVe examPles of Where ConflICt of Interest arIses and you are a Party to deCIsIon-makInG

3.1.
You will be in a conflict of interest situation when you, a member of your family/household and/or your associates has an interest (whether in
the form of directorships, partnerships, shareholdings or through agencies)
in entities which are on PETRONAS’ lists of registered contractors or which have contractual or supply arrangements with PETRONAS, and you are involved in any decision- making by PETRONAS relating to, or have dealings (whether directly or indirectly) with, such entities in the
course of your duties with PETRONAS.
 
3.2.
You will also be in a conflict of interest situation when you are involved or expect to be involved in the hiring, supervision, management or career planning in respect of any of your relatives at PETRONAS.

3.3.
When such a conflict of interest situation becomes known to you, unless otherwise instructed by PETRONAS, you will abstain from participating in any PETRONAS decision-making or deliberations involving the entity or person and also avoid doing anything which could influence the decisions on such dealings, and will report such conflict of interest to your Human Resource Department (or, in the case of directors, the relevant company secretary) promptly. Following such report, PETRONAS will give such instructions to you as it deems appropriate, which you must then heed.

3.4.
You may be asked to serve on the board of directors of another
organisation and this can, in some cases, raise a conflict of interest or a legal issue, even if the service is voluntary and unpaid. Before a PETRONAS employee accepts a
position as a board member outside of PETRONAS, he or she should always obtain approval from his or her Human Resource Department.
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
4.  dIsClosures GIVInG undue adVantaGe to thIrd PartIes

You must not be involved with the commission or omission of any act which gives an undue advantage to an outside party in its dealings with PETRONAS without prior approval from PETRONAS, whether or not such act or omission results in you obtaining a personal gain, benefit or advantage in business transactions  or dealings involving PETRONAS. Such prior approvals should be obtained through your Human Resource Department (or, in the case of directors, the relevant full board
of directors). Giving an outside party confidential PETRONAS information without appropriate authorisation in order to assist that party in securing PETRONAS business or for any other reason will be considered a violation of this restriction.
5.  Personal transaCtIons WIth Petronas’ ClIents, suPPlIers, ContraCtors and Vendors

5.1.
You may not, directly or indirectly, enter into transactions or dealings for the purchase or sale of any moveable or immoveable property or for the supply or purchase of any service from any of PETRONAS’ clients, suppliers, contractors or vendors (or with their agents or representatives) with whom
 

you have or are likely to have official dealings on behalf of PETRONAS, other than transactions or dealings on such terms as are freely available to the general public.

5.2.
If you, despite efforts to avoid transactions or dealings as aforesaid, are constrained nevertheless to
act contrary to this prohibition, you must seek through your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit express written permission of PETRONAS
management for the conduct of such transactions or dealings, and must not proceed with them until such permission is obtained.

5.3.
The granting of the aforesaid permission will be subject to you satisfying PETRONAS that such transactions or dealings are not inconsistent with the due and proper performance of your duties or the fulfilment of your obligation to PETRONAS.
Part II B:
FIGHTING CORRUPTION AND UNETHICAL PRACTICES
 
6.  solICItatIon, BrIBery and CorruPtIon

6.1.
An act of corruption by you has the effect of compromising the due and proper performance of your duties and the exercise of your authority, thereby undermining the integrity of the decision-making process and the decisions of PETRONAS concerning its business and aff

6.2.
You are prohibited from, directly or indirectly, soliciting, accepting or obtaining or agreeing to accept or attempting to obtain, from any party for yourself or for any other party, any bribe or gratification as an inducement or a reward for doing or forbearing to do, or for having done or forborne to do, any act in relation to PETRONAS’ affairs or business, or for showing favour or forbearing to show disfavour to any party in relation to PETRONAS’ aff   or business.

6.3.
You may not directly or indirectly  offer, promise or give any bribe as an inducement or a reward for doing or forbearing to do, or for having done or forborne to do, any act in relation to PETRONAS’ affairs or business, or for showing favour or forbearing to show disfavour to PETRONAS in relation
to PETRONAS’ affairs or business, whether in the form of a facilitation payment, kickback, donation, fee or any other form.
 
6.4.
You should satisfy yourself concerning the status and probity of any contractor, subcontractor, agent, consultant, representative or other person who you engage to act for or on behalf or PETRONAS or in relation to PETRONAS’ affairs or business,
and confirm that the relevant party understands and accepts PETRONAS’ policies prohibiting improper solicitation, bribery and corruption.
Contractors, sub-contractors, consultants, agents, representatives and others must comply with such policies when performing work or services for or on behalf of companies in the PETRONAS group.

6.5.
Even the appearance of conduct prohibited by this Section 6, or any other measure that is unethical or that will tarnish PETRONAS’ reputation
for honesty and integrity, must be avoided. If you are unsure whether an action is permitted, seek guidance before acting.

6.6.
If you receive a request for a bribe or if you are offered a bribe, you must report it to your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit.
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions

6.7.
In this part, a “bribe” or a “gratification” is any gift, payment, benefit or other advantage, pecuniary or otherwise, offered, given, or received in order to secure an undue or improper result, award, decision, benefit or advantage of any kind. A bribe need not involve cash or another financial asset—it can be any kind of advantage, including the unpaid use of corporate services or property, loan guarantees or the provision of employment to the  family or friends of people with whom PETRONAS deals.

7.  reCeIVInG faCIlItatIon Payments

7.1.
You are prohibited from, directly or indirectly, accepting or obtaining or attempting to accept or obtain
facilitation payments from any person for yourself or for any other person subject to this Code.

7.2.
In this part, the term “facilitation payments” generally means payments made to secure or expedite the performance by a person performing a routine or administrative duty or function.
 

8.  ProhIBItIon on CommIssIons, dIsCounts and seCret ProfIts

You must not, directly or indirectly, receive or obtain, in respect of any goods or services sold or purchased or other business transacted (whether or not by you) by or on behalf of PETRONAS, any discount, rebate, commission, service, interest, consideration of value or other benefit or payments of any kind (whether in cash or in kind) which is not authorised by PETRONAS’ rules, policies or guidelines.


9.  aCCountInG for seCret ProfIts or GaIns

A person subject to this Code who, directly or indirectly, obtains any discount, rebate, commission, service, interest, consideration of value or other benefit or payments of any
kind (whether in cash or in kind and whether as a bribe or otherwise), by virtue of his/her position or authority with or on behalf of PETRONAS, will immediately disclose such receipt and he/she will be liable to render an account of the same and surrender any benefits and/or payments received to PETRONAS.
 
10. reCeIVInG GIfts and entertaInment

10.1.
You are required to comply with the policies and procedures of your Human Resource Department relating to the receipt of gifts and entertainment.

10.2.
In no event, however, may you or any of your family/household members accept gifts or entertainment in exchange for an exercise or non- exercise of your PETRONAS authority or otherwise to the detriment of PETRONAS.

11. ProVIdInG GIfts and entertaInment

11.1.
You are required to comply with the policies and procedures of your Human Resource Department relating to the giving of gifts and entertainment.

11.2.
PETRONAS prohibits the giving of entertainment or gifts using
PETRONAS resources that are illegal or unduly dangerous, or indecent, sexually oriented or inconsistent with PETRONAS’ commitment to mutual respect, or for the purpose of improperly influencing someone to
take action in favour of PETRONAS or
 
to refrain from taking action adverse to PETRONAS. No gift of cash may be given. You should not pay for entertainment or a gift personally in order to avoid having to seek pre- approval or to otherwise circumvent PETRONAS policies.

12. PuBlIC  offICIals 12.1.
You are prohibited from offering gifts or entertainment other than in accordance with the policies and
procedures of your Human Resource Department relating to the giving of gifts and entertainment.

12.2.
You are prohibited from offering gifts and entertainment, including travel- related expenses, to government officials or their family/household members without permission from your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit in consultation with your legal department or the CGIC.

12.3.
You are prohibited from paying for non business travel and hospitality for any government offi  or his/ her family/household members without permission from your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit in consultation with your legal department or the CGIC.
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
 


12.4.
You must comply with local laws concerning lobbying in any jurisdiction in which PETRONAS engages in lobbying activity. Prior to engaging
in lobbying activities, you should obtain guidance from your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit.
12.5.
You may not offer or provide gifts or anything else of value to any person, such as an agent, consultant or contractor, if you know or suspect that a government official or his/her family member will be the indirect beneficiary or recipient, other
than as approved by your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit in consultation with your legal department or the CGIC.
12.6.
Any agent, contractor, or other representative dealing with government officials on PETRONAS’ behalf must be evaluated and must be informed of the provisions of this
Code relating to restrictions on bribery and gifts to public offi
12.7.
You may not take action to circumvent the prohibitions in this Section 12.
You must in every instance comply with the rules concerning solicitation, bribery and corruption set out in other sections of this Part II, as well as with applicable laws concerning bribery and corruption.
12.8.
For purposes of this Code, the term “government official” includes, without limitation, candidates for public office, officials of any political party, and officials of state-owned enterprises other than PETRONAS.
13. money launderInG and CounterParty due dIlIGenCe

13.1.
You must conduct appropriate counterparty due diligence to understand the business and background of PETRONAS’ prospective business counterparties and to determine the origin and destination of money, property, and services. You must report to your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit (or, if that is not practicable, the CGIC) suspicious transactions or suspected incidents  of money laundering or bribery. You should not try to investigate a case of money laundering or bribery yourself. Your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit, in consultation with other groups within PETRONAS, generally will be responsible for decisions in this regard.
13.2.
In this part, “money laundering” is generally defined as occurring when the criminal origin or nature of money or assets is hidden in legitimate business dealings or when legitimate funds are used to support criminal activities, including the financing
of terrorism. Offences covered by anti-money laundering legislation include prejudicing or obstructing an investigation and failing to report suspicious activity.

13.3.
You may not knowingly deal with criminals or the proceeds of a crime.

13.4.
The amount, nature, purpose, and provider or recipient of any payment or transfer to or from PETRONAS group companies must be accurately reflected in the books and records of the group.

13.5.
You may not establish bank, securities trading or similar accounts in the name of PETRONAS companies or  for the benefit of PETRONAS without proper authorisation from the Finance Department.
 
Part II C: NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE
14. antItrust /ComPetItIon laW

14.1.
You must ensure that your actions towards business partners (e.g., customers and suppliers), competitors and governmental authorities at all times reflect fair and proper business practices and are in compliance with the laws and regulations governing free and fair competition and monopolies. In this regard, you must fully comply with the competition laws of every country in which PETRONAS operates. In furtherance  of this requirement, you are obligated to comply with the PETRONAS Competition Guidelines as in effect for your jurisdiction from time-to time, a copy of which is available from your Legal Department or the CGIC.
14.2.
It is PETRONAS’ policy that an employee participating in the violation of competition rules will be punished for any misconduct. Any behavior even suggestive of illegal anticompetitive activity is against PETRONAS’ policy and any employee engaging in such conduct should expect to face disciplinary action
by PETRONAS. In case of doubt concerning the compliance of your activities with competition rules, you must contact your Legal Department, the CGIC or designated internal or external legal counsel.
 
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions

15. exPort and ImPort Controls,  InternatIonal BoyCotts and eConomIC sanCtIons
ProGrammes

15.1.
PETRONAS needs to be able to consider the potential impact of export control laws and economic sanctions programmes before transferring goods, technology, software or services across national borders by whatever means. In
this regard, if you are involved with imports or exports, you must have proper authorisation from your Head of Department before exporting
or importing goods, technology, software, or services across national borders for or on behalf of PETRONAS.

15.2.
You must not bring restricted goods into a country without declaring them and you must not import prohibited goods. You must meet import requirements when bringing goods  or services into a country, ensuring duties, levies and taxes are paid and proper documentation is presented.
 
15.3.
You must not participate in or agree to boycotts of customers, suppliers or jurisdictions without proper authorisation from your Head of Department. You should report
any request to participate in an international boycott to your Head of Department, as some countries may require that such requests be reported by PETRONAS.

15.4.
If you are involved in international business for or on behalf of PETRONAS, you must inform yourself concerning the countries,
organisations and persons sanctioned under laws applicable to you or your PETRONAS group employer. The sanctions area is complex, so you should consult with your Head of Department or your Legal Department concerning any questions or uncertainties.

15.5.
You must comply with PETRONAS policies and procedures in effect from time-to-time regarding export and import controls, boycotts and economic sanctions programmes.
Part II d:
ASSETS OF PETRONAS
16. resPonsIBIlIty for assets, faCIlItIes, resourCes and reCords

16.1.
Insofar as you have possession of or are given access to assets, facilities, resources or records belonging to PETRONAS, that possession or access is provided on the basis of trust and confidence that they are to be used for the furtherance of the interest of the businesses of PETRONAS. These assets may be tangible—for example, equipment,  including  computer hardware, or cash—or they may
be intangible, such as intellectual property and computer software.

16.2.
You are responsible for the safekeeping of all assets, facilities, resources and records belonging to PETRONAS that are provided to you for the performance of your duties. You must diligently give heed to and strictly comply with the PETRONAS policies and procedures as amended and updated from time-to-time
on the use of all assets, facilities, resources and records.
16.3.
You must further take all necessary steps to prevent theft, loss, damage to, or misuse of assets, facilities, resources and records belonging to PETRONAS, the occurrence of which should be reported immediately to PETRONAS. Regardless of condition or value, assets, facilities, resources and records belonging to PETRONAS may not be misused, taken, sold, lent, given away or otherwise disposed of, or used for personal purposes, except with the appropriate specific authorisation of PETRONAS.

16.4.
Subject to applicable laws, you may be liable for any loss of or damage to assets, facilities, resources and records arising from your willful
misconduct or negligence or careless action or as a result of action taken without PETRONAS’ approval, and any financial loss suffered by PETRONAS may be recovered from you by way of deduction from your salary or other means. Within the limits of applicable law, PETRONAS may at its discretion take any other action against you considered appropriate by PETRONAS, including reporting you to the public authorities.

16.5.
You must also comply with all policies and procedures established from time-to-time concerning the
preparation, maintenance and disposal of PETRONAS’ books and records.
 
 
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
Part II e:
FINANCIAL INTEGRITY
17. Internal Controls and ProCedures

17.1.
You must comply with all policies and procedures established from time-
to-time to safeguard and support the integrity and accuracy of PETRONAS’ books and records and financial reporting. In this regard, you must not, for example: -

a)  conceal, alter, destroy or  otherwise modify PETRONAS records or documents other than in accordance with established, ordinary course procedures (and in no case impede or frustrate an investigation or audit or conceal or misstate information);

b)  intentionally make a false or misleading entry in a record, report, file or claim (including travel and entertainment expense reports);

c)  establish accounts, companies or arrangements to circumvent or frustrate PETRONAS’ controls, policies or procedures;

d)  fail to cooperate fully and truthfully with internal and external audits authorised by PETRONAS; or

e)  engage in any scheme to defraud anyone of money, property or honest services.
17.2.
You must also comply with all policies and procedures established from time-to-time concerning the
preparation, maintenance and disposal of PETRONAS financial books and records.
 
Part II f:
CONFIDENTIALITY  OBLIGATIONS/ INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY/PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS
 
18. ConfIdentIalIty oBlIGatIons

18.1.
The business affairs and records of PETRONAS comprising business, technical, financial, legal, personnel and contractual records and documents comprising telegrams, e-mails, letters, maps, reports,
drawings, calculations, specifications, formulae, forms, licenses, agreements or other documents or computer softwares or files of whatever nature and informations as to formulae, processes and manufacturing methods are all confidential information belonging to PETRONAS. Such confidential information is strictly private and confidential and may not be utilised, discussed with, divulged
to or disclosed to persons inside or outside PETRONAS, except by persons authorised to do so. All necessary precautions are to be taken by you with respect to the confidentiality of such confi    information.

18.2.
You may not, either during or after your employment or engagement, disclose, divulge or utilise without appropriate authorisation any such confidential information which may have come to your knowledge during your employment or engagement under any previous contract of service with PETRONAS and you must, both during and after your employment
or engagement, take all reasonable precautions to keep all such
confi   information secret.
 
18.3.
Except so far as may be necessary for the purpose of performing your duties you may not, without the
consent of PETRONAS, retain or make originals or copies of such confidential information or notices thereof, nor retain samples of specimens in which PETRONAS may be or may have been interested and which have come into your possession by reason of your employment or engagement. If on termination of your employment or engagement you are in possession
of any confidential information or any such samples or specimens as aforesaid, you will deliver forthwith the same on or before the date of cessation of your employment/ engagement to PETRONAS without
being asked, except insofar as consent to retain them has been given to you by PETRONAS.

18.4.
In the course of your relationship  with PETRONAS, you may have established contacts and relationships with PETRONAS’ vendors, suppliers, contractors, principals and other business partners. You will not at
any time during your relationship with PETRONAS, or for a period of two years after the cessation of your relationship with PETRONAS (or
for whatever other period of time as may be specified in the terms of your engagement or Country
Supplement to this Code applicable to you), whether by resignation or otherwise, make use of business opportunities arising from your
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
relationship with PETRONAS or cause or attempt to cause the diversion of such business opportunity from being exploited by PETRONAS or cause or attempt to cause the termination of contracts, agencies or other business relationships of PETRONAS without first obtaining the prior consent of PETRONAS.

18.5.
You will not at any time, after the cessation of your tenure with PETRONAS, whether by resignation or otherwise, use PETRONAS’ confidential information in breach of your post-tenure obligations to maintain the confidence of such confi  information.

18.6.
While PETRONAS may hire persons who have knowledge and experience in various technical areas, you must not on behalf or for the benefit of PETRONAS employ people as a means of gaining access to the trade secrets and other sensitive proprietary information of others.

19. data  ProteCtIon 19.1.
You must comply with PETRONAS policies and applicable laws concerning the protection of personal privacy, including the protection of personal data.
 
20. InsIder  dealInG 20.1.
You must protect the confidential business information of PETRONAS and its counterparties, and never use  it for your own benefit or the benefit of other persons—especially not to trade in shares or other securities or to recommend or cause a third-party to do so.

20.2.
You are required to abide by all applicable laws on insider dealing, which generally is when you trade  in shares or other securities while in possession of material non-public information or when you share such information with someone else  who then trades in those shares or other securities. In particular, you must not deal in the securities of PETRONAS group companies (or
in other speculative dealings with regard to those securities) while in the possession of material non-public information. We expect all directors, employees, their respective families/ households and others whose relationships with PETRONAS give them access to such information to comply with these principles, along with other laws, regulations and policies concerning the handling of confidential  information.  “Material non-public information” is generally non-public information that a reasonable investor would consider important when deciding to buy
or sell securities. The restrictions
described here also apply to “price sensitive information” or other similar types of information in jurisdictions where the applicable insider trading laws make reference to those types of information.

20.3.
You are also required to abide by all applicable laws on securities market abuse, which involves spreading false information or engaging in activities designed to manipulate the market for publicly traded securities.


21. InVentIons and ComPuter ProGrammes

21.1.
PETRONAS encourages you to be inventive and innovative. Such
inventiveness and innovation are part of the normal duties owed by you to PETRONAS.

21.2.
Subject to the requirements of applicable law, the ownership of inventions, computer programmes or results of technological research made by you or to which you
have contributed whilst working for PETRONAS or in the course of discharging your duties or employing PETRONAS resources,
data and/or time, will be vested with PETRONAS. Nevertheless, subject to the requirements of applicable law, PETRONAS may reward you as it may deem appropriate, in its discretion.
 
21.3.
Further to Section 21.2 above, you may not file for any trademarks, patents or registered designs
or claim copyright in your own name for or in such inventions, computer programmes or results of technological research.

21.4.
You may not, without the written consent of PETRONAS, disclose such inventions, computer programmes or results of technological research or any information relating thereto  to any person whomsoever except to PETRONAS and its duly authorised agents.

21.5.
Without prejudice to its rights under this Section, PETRONAS is prepared, in special cases, to consider requests from you for permission to publish original papers, in an appropriate form, whenever in the opinion of PETRONAS the subject matter thereof is considered to be of benefit to the community and its disclosure will not be disadvantageous to PETRONAS.

21.6.
In this Section, the term “invention” includes any new or improved substance, material, plant machinery or apparatus produced or capable of being produced by manufacture, any new or improved method or process of manufacturing or of testing or of sampling, and any discovery in a field of science or applied technology.
 
 
 
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
21.7.
Further, the term “computer programme” includes any computer programmes, softwares, scripts, or other computer instructions that relate to any business and processes of PETRONAS.
22. thIrd Party IntelleCtual ProPerty

22.1.
You must comply with all laws, regulations and contractual obligations regarding the valid intellectual property rights of other parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information. You may not knowingly infringe on the protected intellectual property rights of other parties.

23. PuBlICatIon of materIals 23.1.
Except with the written permission  of PETRONAS, you will not publish or
write any books or other works which are based on PETRONAS’ confidential information as described in Section 18.1.

23.2.
If permission is granted, it will be subject to the following conditions:

a)  the proposed publication will not be published in such a way as to state or imply that it has received
 

official support or backing or sponsorship from PETRONAS; and

b)  the proposed publication will not, under any circumstances, bear the words “PETRONAS
approved publication” or words to that effect, however phrased,
that could be construed to suggest that the publication has been agreed to or approved by PETRONAS.

23.3.
Certain categories of employees (e.g., certain engineers and technologists) in the PETRONAS specialist programme are not subject to the conditions described in Section 22.2, but permission for the publication of books, articles, journals, presentation material or other works based on PETRONAS’ confidential information  is still required to be obtained from their relevant Head of Department
or Vice President. Questions in this regard may be directed to your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit.
24. makInG of PuBlIC statements

24.1.
Irrespective of whether in your personal or official capacity, you will not either orally or in writing or in any form (including on social media
websites) make or circulate any public statement on the policies or decisions of PETRONAS or discuss publicly any measure taken by PETRONAS or any official matter taken or carried out by you, unless you are duly appointed or authorised to make such statement on behalf of PETRONAS.

24.2.
You will not, either orally or in writing or in any other form (unless you are appointed or authorised as
aforesaid), make any public statement or comment on any matter relating to the work of the department or organisation in which you are or  were employed, or relating to any organisation with which PETRONAS has dealings: -

a)  where such statement or comment may reasonably be regarded as indicative of the policy of PETRONAS; or

b)  where such statement or comment may embarrass or is likely to embarrass PETRONAS; or

c)  where such statement or comment may compromise the interests and reputation of PETRONAS.
 
24.3.
In this Section, “public statement” or “discuss publicly” includes the making of any statement or comment to
the press, magazines, periodicals or the public or in the course of any lecture or speech or the broadcasting thereof by sound, vision or electronic means. It also applies to every kind
of correspondence including mail, electronic documents, instant messages, websites, social media tools, blogs, paper documents, facsimile, voice and voicemail recordings.


25. GIVInG of referenCe

Save insofar as required in the course of normal business, you may only give reference in a non-PETRONAS capacity, and no use will be made of PETRONAS’ name or stationery with PETRONAS’ logo or any corporate identifier. Where a reference is provided on a non-PETRONAS basis, you are duty bound to inform the party who seeks your reference that your reference is given strictly in that non-PETRONAS capacity.
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
26. soCIal medIa/InformatIon teChnoloGy and systems

26.1.
You must not upload, download, send or otherwise access or store pornography or other indecent or offensive material using PETRONAS premises, equipment or systems.
Sending or forwarding obscene, libellous, defamatory, offensive or racist remarks is strictly prohibited. If you receive materials of this nature, you must promptly notify PETRONAS management.

26.2.
You must not upload, download, send or otherwise access material that is likely to cause annoyance, inconvenience, or offense to your colleagues, including inappropriate jokes.


26.3.
The PETRONAS IT and communications systems are to be used for PETRONAS work and business purposes only.

26.4.
You must not send personal e-mails using PETRONAS e-stationery or displaying PETRONAS headers or footers, or otherwise suggesting that such communications are authorised by PETRONAS.
 

26.5.
You must not use personal e-mail addresses and services to send or receive PETRONAS confidential information. Similarly, you must not allow automatic forwarding of electronic mail to external mail addresses.

26.6.
You must not disable or circumvent PETRONAS IT security measures.

26.7.
When using PETRONAS IT and communications systems, conducting PETRONAS’ business or acting for PETRONAS’ benefit, you must not deliberately conceal or misrepresent your identity. You should not send
e-m ail messages using another person’s e-mail account unless you have proper authorisation from the owner of the e-mail account.

26.8.
You may not forge or attempt to forge e-mail messages.

26.9.
You should not send or forward unsolicited e-mail messages.

26.10.
You must avoid sending confidential information via electronic messaging (e.g., SMS) or other unsecure messaging channels, and, if this is unavoidable, the information must be secured (e.g., with encryption, password).
26.11.
The installation of third party software in or connection of hardware to PETRONAS IT systems or equipment without the prior approval of your Head of Department is prohibited.

26.12.
You must not employ PETRONAS IT and communications systems to:

a)  conduct fraud;

b)  run your own business;

c)  view, download, copy, illegally share, process or post information in a way that infringes the relevant content provider’s intellectual property rights;

d)  send chain letters, make solicitations for money or gifts, or make personal offers to sell products, for charitable fundraising campaigns, political advocacy efforts, religious efforts, or private non-PETRONAS commercial purposes;

e)  commit “cybercrimes”, such as spam attacks, hacking, IT sabotage, spying, and creating or sending viruses;

f)  send malicious rumours or transmit derogatory or indecent materials; or
 
g)  otherwise engage in activities that could damage PETRONAS’ business or reputation.

26.13.
If you discover or suspect any actual or potential incident that could compromise the security, integrity, confidentiality, operation or availability of PETRONAS hardware, systems or data, or any disclosure of confidential information, you must immediately contact the ICT Service Desk or other relevant authority. System users are not allowed to attempt to prove a security weakness by engaging in unauthorised activity.

26.14.
You must use PETRONAS IT and communications systems in a responsible and professional manner consistent with this Code and other PETRONAS IT policies and procedures in effect from time-to-time, including the PETRONAS Information Security Policy, which sets out more detailed and comprehensive guidelines for the preservation of information security and the use of the systems, and any relevant social media policies.
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
Part II G:
CONDUCT  CONTRARY TO DUTY TO SERVE DILIGENTLY

26.15.
PETRONAS may search and monitor your e-mails and Internet usage conducted through PETRONAS
IT or communications systems and equipment, subject to the requirements of local laws and regulations. You should not
assume that any use of PETRONAS’ communications devices or systems is private.

26.16.
You must safeguard passwords and other means of shielding
PETRONAS’ information systems from unauthorised access, including by following the password protection protocols established by PETRONAS from  time-to-time.

26.17.
You must comply with PETRONAS policies and procedures regarding records retention, whether with regard to electronic or hard copy records, in effect from time-to-time.

26.18.
Contractors and other parties authorised by PETRONAS to use PETRONAS computer systems must comply with PETRONAS’ IT policies and ICT security baseline procedures in effect from time-to-time.
 
27. outsIde emPloyment or BusIness aCtIVItIes

27.1.
As a PETRONAS employee, you must devote your time and attention to the fulfillment of your employment
obligations to PETRONAS. PETRONAS employees may not take up other employment or gainful activity, whether part-time or full-time, or
be involved in any outside business activities, in whatever capacity (including being involved in the management, direction or conduct of another enterprise) without
the express written permission of PETRONAS. If you are already
engaged in any other gainful activity or involved, either directly or indirectly, in the management or business activities of any other company or companies, firms, corporations or other business activities, you should come forward and disclose your activity to PETRONAS through your Head of Department or your Human Resource Department.

27.2.
The granting of permission will be subject to your satisfying PETRONAS that such activity will not interfere with or compromise the proper performance of your duties or the fulfillment of your obligations to PETRONAS.
27.3.
Any permission granted may be withdrawn at any time at the sole discretion of PETRONAS without the need for assigning any reason
thereof. In such an event, PETRONAS will be deemed fully indemnified by you and will not be held liable for  any repercussion arising from such decision to withdraw the permission so granted before.
28. PuBlIC serVICe, reCreatIonal, sPorts, unIon and CommunIty aCtIVItIes

28.1.
Generally, PETRONAS wishes to encourage you to participate in unpaid voluntary public service, recreational activities, sports and other community activities outside working hours. Whilst such activities outside working hours are encouraged, such activities must not be permitted to interfere with
your duties and responsibilities during normal working hours.
 
28.2.
The general rule is that if a PETRONAS employee is invited to serve on
local bodies, or as an appointed or elected club official, the employee is required to notify his or her Head of Department immediately upon being so appointed or elected and must be able to balance the outside activities with his or her full-time PETRONAS employment. The employee must be able to discharge his or her dual responsibilities satisfactorily, both in respect of the time taken up by the outside activity and the nature of his or her full-time duties. At all relevant
times, the employee must ensure that his or her duties and obligations to PETRONAS, as well as the interests of PETRONAS, are not compromised.

28.3.
PETRONAS recognises the role of employees who are elected officials  of a labour union which has been duly accorded recognition by PETRONAS and their participation in union activities which are in compliance with the relevant labour legislation.

28.4.
Charitable donations of (or employing)
PETRONAS resources must be pre-approved by your Head of Department or the head of your
operating unit and may not be used to circumvent or avoid any of the provisions of this Code (particularly the prohibitions on bribery).
Core Values and Culture
 
duties of Good faith, fidelity, diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
 
29. PolItICal  aCtIVItIes 29.1.
PETRONAS recognises that
employees, in their capacity as citizens, may wish to involve themselves in legitimate political activities. While PETRONAS does not wish to discourage employees from doing so, in order that PETRONAS can avoid involvement or identification with any political party, employees are required to use their off duty time, or annual leave entitlement, subject to prior approval, for such matters. In the event an employee is appointed an office holder at the Branch, Division, State or National level of a political party, the employee is to inform PETRONAS of such appointment.

29.2.
In order not to compromise the interests of PETRONAS, employees who wish to stand for State, Federal and/or material elections are required to resign from PETRONAS, subject to the requirements of applicable law.

29.3.
You must not use your position with PETRONAS to try to influence any other person (whether or not employed by PETRONAS) to make political contributions or to support politicians or their parties in any country without approval from your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit.
 

29.4.
You may not make any contribution or incur any expenditure using PETRONAS resources to benefit any political campaign, party or politician in any country without approval from your Head of Department or the head of your operating unit in consultation with your legal department or the CGIC.

29.5.
PETRONAS facilities, equipment and resources may not be used for any political campaigns or party functions without approval from your Head
of Department or the head of your operating unit.

29.6.
Charitable donations may not be used as a substitute for prohibited political payments.


30. ProhIBItIon of aCtIon as edItor of neWsPaPers or any form of PuBlICatIon

An employee will not act as the editor, or take part directly or indirectly in
the management of any publication, including newspapers, magazines or journals, except for the following: -

a)  department or staff publications;

b)  professional publications; and

c)  publications of non-political or voluntary organisations.

31. PartICIPatIon In the medIa 31.1.
An employee may not participate in any form of advertisement
or broadcasting whether in the newspapers, magazines, radio or television or any other media,
without prior written consent from PETRONAS.

31.2.
An employee may be allowed to contribute literary or academic articles to any publications (for example newspapers, magazines or journals), provided that prior written permission from PETRONAS is obtained.
 
Part II h:
DISCLOSURE DUTIES
32. your duty to rePort BreaChes and VIolatIons

32.1.
If you find or suspect that another person subject to this Code may have committed or may be about to commit any breach of any of his/her
terms and conditions of service, of his/ her engagement, or of this Code, or  to violate other PETRONAS policies or procedures or applicable law, whether deliberately or through inadvertence, you must forthwith report the same, in writing, to your Head of Department or your Human Resource Department.

32.2.
You may also disclose any alleged or suspected improper conduct using the procedures provided for in the PETRONAS Whistleblowing Policy as adopted for your jurisdiction, a copy of which is available from your Human Resource Department.
32.3.
If you make a report or disclosure as stated above in good faith, belief,
without malicious intent, that a breach or violation as aforesaid may have occurred or may be about to occur, you will not be penalised or subject to any form of victimisation or retaliatory action notwithstanding that, after investigation, it is shown that you were mistaken. Any form of reprisal by a person subject to this Code against another person who in good faith and without malicious intent has made a report or disclosure as stated above is forbidden and will itself be regarded  as serious misconduct rendering
the person engaged in the reprisal liable for disciplinary action. This includes blatant actions, such as firing, transferring, demoting or publicly attacking someone, and more subtle retaliation, such as avoiding someone, leaving him or her out of professional or social activities, and so on.

32.4.
The provisions of this Section 32 are not intended to invalidate grievance procedures and/or disciplinary action processes and procedures at your group company, and are subject to the procedures and restrictions in force for your jurisdiction.
 
33. dIsClosure of oVerPayments

If you find that you have received overpayments of salary, allowances, expenses, claims or other compensation, or benefits in excess  of your entitlements, you must immediately inform your immediate superior and the department responsible for such payments or benefits and then forthwith refund any such overpayments to PETRONAS.
PART III
WorkPlaCe Culture and enVIronment
 
PART III
WorkPlaCe Culture and enVIronment
 
1.  sIGnIfICanCe of safe, seCure and ConduCIVe WorkPlaCe enVIronment

PETRONAS is committed to providing, in collaboration with you, a safe, secure and conducive workplace culture and environment, where
the values of mutual and reciprocal respect, trust and confidence are upheld and actively promoted.

2.  unlaWful   dIsCrImInatIon 2.1.
PETRONAS will not tolerate unlawful discrimination in the workplace or on the job.

2.2.
You must comply with laws in your local jurisdiction that prohibit workplace discrimination.
 
3.  sustaInaBle deVeloPment

3.1.
PETRONAS is committed to sustainable development in order to help meet the world’s growing energy needs through economical,
environmental and socially responsible efforts.

3.2.
You should aim to create lasting social benefits; safeguard the health and safety of employees, contractors and neighbours; minimise disruptions to the community; lower emissions; minimise impact on ecosystems and biodiversity; and use energy, water and other resources more effi .


4.  dress Code
All employees should be neatly, appropriately and decently attired during office working hours. All employees should comply with more specific rules concerning attire that may be set out in any Country Supplement to this Code applicable to them or otherwise established by PETRONAS for the workplace.
Core Values and Culture
 
Duties of Good Faith, Fidelity, Diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions

5.  sexual   harassment 5.1.
The promotion of the physical, emotional and psychological well- being of employees is an important objective of PETRONAS. In this regard, PETRONAS is committed to providing a conducive working environment where your right to protection from all forms of sexual harassment and unsolicited or unwarranted sexual overtures and advances is accorded due recognition.

5.2.
The act of sexual harassment, unsolicited and unwarranted sexual overtures and advances will be treated as misconduct.
 

5.3.
For the purpose of this Section, “sexual harassment” means:-

Any unwelcomed conduct of a sexual nature in the form of verbal, non-verbal, visual, psychological or physical harassment:-

a)  that might, on reasonable grounds, be perceived by the recipient as placing a condition of a sexual nature on his/her employment; or

b)  that might, on reasonable grounds, be perceived by the recipient as an offence or humiliation, or a threat to his/her wellbeing.

Sexual harassment in workplace includes any employment related sexual harassment occurring outside the workplace as a result of employment responsibilities or
employment relationships. Situations under which such employment related sexual harassment may take place include, but are not limited to:-
–   at work related social functions;
–   in the course of work assignments outside the workplace;
–   at work related conferences or training sessions;
–   during work related travel;
–   over the phone; and
–   through electronic media.

6.  non-BusIness WorkPlaCe relatIonshIPs

6.1.
When employees have relationships which go beyond professional relationships and social friendships, such relationships may create conflicts of interest as well as opportunities
for exploitation, favouritism or bias. Such relationships can also undermine core values, such as respect and trust amongst staff, and impact upon the reputation and integrity of PETRONAS. These relationships create a real likelihood of disaffection, disharmony and significant difficulties for the parties concerned as well as for
other co-employees of PETRONAS. Under the circumstances, such relationships are discouraged. Your terms of employment may impose additional requirements with respect to workplace relationships.

6.2.
There is a basic conflict of interest when you manage someone with whom you have a family, romantic or intimate relationship. Even if you act properly, your relationship may be seen as influencing your judgment. Accordingly, as a PETRONAS employee or director, you may not supervise, directly or indirectly, any employee with whom you have
such a relationship without written permission from your Human Resource Department (or, in the case of directors, the relevant company secretary).
 
7.  oCCuPatIonal health, safety and enVIronment

7.1.
PETRONAS is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all employees working at its facilities  and minimising the impact of its operations on the environment.

7.2.
Every PETRONAS group employee must conscientiously and diligently comply with all HSE requirements, measures, work rules and standard operating procedures set out in manuals, handbooks and documents issued by PETRONAS as amended and updated from time-to-time and all applicable laws and regulations.

Core Values and Culture
 
Duties of Good Faith, Fidelity, Diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and environment
 
Discipline, Disciplinary Process and Sanctions
 
8.  suBstanCe mIsuse (druG and alCohol aBuse)

8.1.
The use of a substance of misuse (as defined in item 8.3) can impair performance at work and can be a threat to health, safety and the
environment. Hence, it is PETRONAS’ policy that the unauthorised consumption, possession, distribution, purchase or sale of any substance of misuse within its premises or while conducting its businesses or being under the influence of any such substance while working is prohibited.
In this respect, all persons covered by this Code must diligently heed and comply with the policies and procedures on substance misuse
issued by PETRONAS as amended and updated  from  time-to-time,  copies
of which are available from the group HSE Division. The consumption of legally prescribed psychoactive drugs is permitted for the treatment of identified illnesses, subject to prior approval by PETRONAS management with authority over the relevant premises or activity.
 
8.2.
To ensure adherence to this policy, PETRONAS may conduct
unannounced testing and searches for substances of misuse in accordance with its policies and subject to the requirements of applicable laws.
Any persons covered by this Code who are found to have unauthorised possession of any substance of misuse or who test positive for any substance of misuse are considered to have committed an act of misconduct which may render them liable for disciplinary action, including termination. Subject to local laws
in the jurisdiction of operation, employees are required to consent  to testing and searches conducted by any persons or laboratory authorised by PETRONAS by signing relevant documents issued by PETRONAS. Further, employees who undergo such testing must give consent to the release of the results to PETRONAS.

8.3.
Under this Code, “substance of misuse” includes any illegal drugs, alcoholic beverages containing ethanol, legal psychoactive drugs obtained or used without legal prescription, and legally prescribed psychoactive drugs consumed beyond their therapeutic or prescribed uses.
8.4.
PETRONAS contractors and subcontractors are required to demonstrate that substance misuse control programmes are part of their HSE management to ensure that substance misuse among their employees is adequately controlled and meets PETRONAS standards.
 
9.  BorroWInG money

9.1.
You will not, under any circumstances, borrow money from your subordinate or from PETRONAS contractors, subcontractors, consultants or suppliers. You may, however, stand surety for your subordinates or other persons subject to this Code for loans taken from PETRONAS based on PETRONAS’ prevailing policy.

9.2.
Subject to the foregoing and to any restrictions set out in a Country Supplement that are applicable to you, you may borrow money from any person or stand as surety or guarantor for any borrower provided that you
do not in any manner place yourself under any serious obligation to any person:

a)  who is, directly or indirectly, subject to your official authority; or

b)  with whom you have or are likely to have offi   dealings.
 
PART IV
dIsCIPlIne, dIsCIPlInary ProCess and sanCtIons
 
PART IV
dIsCIPlIne, dIsCIPlInary ProCess and sanCtIons

 
1.  ImPortanCe of Good ConduCt and dIsCIPlIne

1.1.
The maintenance of discipline, good conduct and decorum amongst
the employees of PETRONAS is critical to the smooth running of its business or enterprise and is for the common good of PETRONAS and its employees.

1.2.
The term “misconduct” means improper behaviour or an act or conduct in relation to duties or  work which is inconsistent with the due performance of obligations to PETRONAS and includes a breach of discipline or violation of this Code or
the rules and regulations as set out in any handbooks, policies or procedure statements or in any documentation of PETRONAS.
 
1.3.
The following acts may be treated as misconduct for which a person covered by this Code may be liable for disciplinary action, subject to the requirements of applicable law:

i.  insubordination;

ii. tardiness;

iii.    absenteeism;

iv. violent behaviour or threats of violent behaviour (includes assaults and fighting, whether with employees, clients, contractors, or visitors to PETRONAS premises);

v.  theft, fraud, misappropriation;

vi. being dishonest or conducting oneself in such a manner as to lay oneself open to suspicion of dishonesty;

vii.    encouraging or assisting anyone to steal PETRONAS’ property;

viii.   negligence, neglect or dereliction of duty;

ix. sleeping while on duty;
Core Values and Culture
 
Duties of Good Faith, Fidelity, Diligence and Integrity
 
Workplace Culture and Environment
 
discipline, disciplinary Process and sanctions
x.  deliberate damage to PETRONAS’ property;

xi. leaving the workplace during working hours without appropriate permission;

xii.    sexual impropriety at the workplace;

xiii.   drug or alcohol abuse on the job or that affects your performance;

xiv.    signing in or signing out attendance for other employees;

xv. sexual harassment;

xvi.    obstructing other employees from performing their duties;

xvii.   gambling within the premise of PETRONAS;

xviii.  non-observance of safety precautions or rules, or interfering or tampering with any safety devices installed in or about the premises of PETRONAS;

xix.    engaging in any illegal or unethical practices such as taking or giving bribes or receiving any illegal gratification whether in monetary terms or otherwise;
 

xx. engaging in other employment/ business whilst in the service of PETRONAS, without the permission of PETRONAS;

xxi.    any act which could adversely affect the image or reputation of PETRONAS;

xxii.   misuse of PETRONAS’ computer and telecommunications systems (e.g., excessive accessing of non-work
related internet sites (such as social networking websites), accessing of pornographic sites and deliberate tampering with or unauthorised use of computer hardware or software);

xxiii.  violating local laws concerning the protection of the privacy of personal data of PETRONAS employees;

xxiv.   taking retaliatory actions against persons in situations
where they are protected by the PETRONAS Whistleblowing Policy;

xxv.    conducting themselves in a manner that can be
reasonably construed as lacking in effi

xxvi.   breaching any policies or prohibitions set out within this Code;
 xxvii. taking measures in circumvention of the policies and prohibitions set out in this Code;

xxviii. failing to observe all laws and regulations applicable to PETRONAS’ business and operations;

xxix.   failing to comply with PETRONAS established rules and procedures, including but not limited to the limits of authority (LOAs); and

xxx.    conviction of criminal court.

1.4.
The above list of types of misconduct is not to be taken as exhaustive and, for the avoidance of doubt, the said list does not detract from the meaning of misconduct as set out in Section 1.2 of Part IV above.

1.5.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, a person covered by this Code will strictly:-

a)  observe all statutory laws and regulations applicable to
PETRONAS’
business and operations; and

b)  comply with PETRONAS established rules and procedures, including
but not limited to limits of authority (LOAs).
 
1.6.
Subject to the requirements of applicable law, disciplinary action may be taken against any person covered by this Code for misconduct or for non-compliance with such laws, regulations, rules and procedures.

2.  dIsCIPlInary ProCess and sanCtIons
Provisions concerning disciplinary procedures and actions relevant for your jurisdiction are set out in a Country Supplement. If no such provisions are set out in such a supplement for your jurisdiction, the standard disciplinary rules and
practices for dealing with violations  of company policy in your jurisdiction will apply, in every instance subject
to the requirements of applicable law. Further information in this regard may be obtained from your Human Resource Department.

PETROLIAM NASIONAL BERHAD (PETRONAS) (20016-Kl
Corporate Governance and International Compliance Unit
Legal Division
Level 69,PETRONAS Twin Towers Kuala Lumpur City Centre
50088 Kuala Lumpur Malaysia

cobe@petronas.com.my www.petronas.com



Philippine Institute of Chemical Engineers
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Philippines
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics


Section  1.    The chemical engineer shall be guided  in  all  his relations  by the highest standards of honor and  integrity  and shall act with fairness and impartiality to all.
Section 2. The chemical engineer shall uphold at all  times  the dignity of the chemical engineering profession and shall  protect it from misrepresentation.
Section 3.  The chemical engineer shall avoid  being  associated with any enterprise which is of questionable  character  or  is contrary to law or public welfare.
Section 4. The chemical engineer shall express  a  professional opinion only when he is adequately informed of the facts related there to and the purposes for which the opinion is asked.
Section 5.  The chemical engineer shall not  issue  statements, criticism  or  arguments on matters of public concern  which  are inspired or paid for by private interests, unless he indicates in whose behalf he is making the statement.
Section 6.  The  chemical  engineer  shall  not   indulge in self-laudatory  advertisement nor make exaggerated,  untrue,  or misleading statements in media  or any public forum.
Section 7. The chemical engineer shall be mindful of the  safety and convenience of the public at all times and shall make every effort  to  remedy  or bring to the attention of his client or employer  any dangerous  defect in equipment  or structures  or dangerous conditions of operation which come to his knowledge.
Section 8. The  chemical  engineer shall consider  it   his professional  obligation to protect the interest of  his  client, employer or  any  person  of responsibility  and  he shall  act accordingly  as long as it does not conflict  with  law,  public policy, and welfare.
Section 9. The chemical engineer shall make known to his  client or  employer all his other professional obligations,  financial interests,  or  other  considerations which  might restrict or interfere with his meeting the legitimate expectations of his client or employer before undertaking an engagement.
Section 10. The chemical engineer shall not accept compensation, financial or otherwise form more than one client or employer  who is  in the same line of business or has conflicting interest  with the others, without the consent of all parties; he  shall  not accept compensation directly or indirectly from parties dealing with his client or employer except with the consent of his client or employer.
Section 11. The chemical engineer shall  present  clearly  the consequences  or  risk  that  will arise if his professional judgement or work, for which he is responsible, is  overruled.
Section 12. The chemical engineer shall not hesitate to  engage, or advise his client or employer to engage the services of other experts  or specialists on problems on which his information  or experience is inadequate.
Section 13. The chemical engineer shall regard as the property of his client or employer  any  plan,  design, or other record which  results from the use of information which is not common knowledge or public property,  but which information is obtained from his client or employer.
Section 14. The chemical engineer  shall exchange general information and experience with his fellow chemical engineers, contribute to the work of engineering societies and schools, and cooperate in such  other endeavors as will enhance the effectiveness of the chemical engineering profession.
Section 15. The chemical engineer shall encourage  and  provide opportunity  for the professional development or  advancement  of chemical engineers in his employ.
Section 16. The chemical engineer shall recognize the view  that inadequate  compensation for professional  services  ten  toward inferior and unreliable work and shall not  accept compensation beneath the generally accepted level of professional fee.
Section 17. The chemical engineer shall not compete with  another engineer  unfairly,  such as  reducing his  usual professional  charges for work after having been informed of the charges  asked by others.
Section 18. The chemical engineer shall not injure or attempt  to injure  falsely  or maliciously, directly or  indirectly,  the professional reputation, competence, capability, prospects,  or practice of another professional.
Section 19.  The chemical engineer shall endeavor at all times to give credit to those to whom credit is properly due.
Section 20. The chemical engineer shall not review the  work  of another chemical engineer for the same client or employer without the prior knowledge and consent of such engineer when the client or employer relation of such chemical engineer has already been terminated, prior notice is sufficient.
Section 21.  The chemical engineer shall report any infraction of any rules of professional conduct to the Philippine Institute  of Chemical Engineers  (PICHE) for proper appraisal and  shall  be ready to testify, if necessary.
Section 22.  This Code shall take effect after fifteen (15)  days following its publication in the Official Gazette.
Polish Academy of Sciences Committee for Ethics in Science
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Poland
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

GOOD MANNERS IN SCIENCE
A SET OF PRINCIPLES AND GUIDELINES
Chapter 1
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Knowledge and reason arę today so threatened,
In a way that was once rarely the case,
And threatened along with them is that
Which is simply human: perhaps even humanity itself.
(J.M. Bocheński, 1992)
1. 1. The scientist is bound by the principles of the ethics of humankind, as well as by
the principles of good manners in science.
The ethics of humankind bind scientists in the same way as they do all other men and
women, but the responsibility of the scientist is greater, because of a higher degree of
consciousness, and also because scientists are assigned high rank in the social hierarchy and
perceived as authorities in public life.
The scientist is bound above all by norms of veracity and disinterestedness.
The principles of ethics and good manners bind scientists in all their conduct, not only in their
professional activities.
If legal or internal service regulations would violate the ethos of scientists, the scientist
should strive to change such regulations, in order that they might be made consistent with the
canons of good manners in science.
1.2. The scientist cannot demand of his/her co-workers or subordinates behaviour that
conflicts with the principles of good manners in science.
1.3. The scientist cannot justify behaviour in conflict with the principles of good
manners in science by reference to either obedience or loyalty.
1.4. fn a situation in which application of the principles of good manners in science
provokes a collision with other generally-accepted value systems, the scientist
should make a choice in line with his/her own conscience, taking a personal decision in
each particular case of moral conflict.
1.5. The scientist recognizes science as an important component of culture and defends
it against any unjust accusation.
The scientist should defend the right to study every scientific problem, regardless of its
immediate usefulness, in the conviction that:
- on the scale of historical development, science leads to the overall progress of civilization
and improvements in human well-being;
- science satisfies people's natural cognitive needs; the propagation of a knowledge of the
world improves human conduct.
1.6. The scientist is obliged to combat the improper use of scientific achievements in
general, and their use against humankind in particular.
The scientist should be aware that the results of his/her scientific activity can be wrongfully
applied, but this should not dissuade him/her from engaging in purely cognitive work. The
scientist is, however, obliged to counteract any attempt at putting science to what are from the
humanist point of view undignified ends, by:
- warning of the possible consequences of such attempts;
- refusing to cooperate;
- informing and mobilising public opinion, and in particular that of the scientific
community
1.7. The scientist should continuously extend and deepen his/her knowledge and
improve his/her capacities.
1.8. The scientist is obliged to maintain a critical attitude.
In his/her professional activity the scientist respects the opinions of scientific authorities,
but ultimately attaches greater importance to material arguments.
The scientist adjusts the determination of his/her responses to the degree to which they are
justified.
The scientist should always be prepared to question, revise or reject theories, even if they
are his/her own, if they cannot withstand attempts at rational criticism or are not sustained by the
facts.
1.9. The scientist should defend scientific freedom.
Scientific freedom is essentially the freedom to select topics, and choose the methods by
which they are addressed, and above all, freedom of thought and of speech. The scientist agrees to
limitations on free speech and the selection of topics, if such limitations are made necessary by
overriding considerations (e.g. State secrets), and are introduced by competent scientific bodies.
The scientist opposes all that is harmful to the development of science, including:
- censorship of speech and scientific publication,
- the limitation of access to primary sources,
- limitations on the free flow of information,
- the limitation of personal contacts between scientists.
The scientist strives to make self-government a universal and permanent form of scientific life
at all levels.
A requirement that a scientist declare loyalty toward the political authorities or other nonscientific
institutions compromises the freedom of science and should meet with protest from the
scientific community.
1.10. The scientist condemns the application of other non-scientific criteria in science,
but reserves judgment and condemnation in regard to matters not yet in the scientific
domain.
The scientist should be impartial and should object to all forms of discrimination in the
scientific world. The evaluation of scientific achievements by reference to personal, national,
racial or political outlook is not worthy of a scientist.
1. 11. The scientist does not act maliciously to harm the professional reputation of a fellow.
If, however, there is evidence or justified suspicion of scientific behaviour or activity that
is against the law or good manners in science. especially in regard to falsified or unreliable
research results, then this should not be concealed.
1.12. The scientist does not base the quality of his/her work on remuneration, but is
entitled to require a fair salary for his/herwork.
1.13. Scientists have a particular duty to promulgate within the scientific community, by
themselves or via scientific institutions and organizations, the principles of reliable
scientific work and the condemnation of scientific dishonesty and breaches of good
practice.
Chapter 2
THE SCIENTISTAS CREATOR
2.1. The scientist recognizes the results of scientific creativity as the personal good of the
creator, and at the same time as a common good.
Publication in a peer-reviewed journal under an Editorial Committee is the principal end
point of the scientific process. At the moment of issue, content enters the public domain as
scientific knowledge, which may be drawn upon on condition that the principles below are abided
by. However, many academics share their ideas or observations with colleagues, by word of mouth
or correspondence, while work is still ongoing. This reflects the cooperative nature of the
scientific venture, but affords opportunities for what are infringements of intellectual property
rights, via the use of information for a scientist's own purposes, without the consent of the author.
The scientist abides by the provisions of law, in particular copyright law, that have been
adopted internationally and set out in detail in national law. He/she may borrow from printed
publications on the condition that the source is cited and a clear delimitation made between his/her
own achievements and those of others. Exact replication of photograms, designs, figures and
tables requires the prior consent of the author or publisher. Such replications should be avoided if
they are not sufficiently motivated by scientific needs. Quotation from the works of others is only
acceptable within the limits set by the need for exact and concise informing on the scientific
thought of others.
Manuscripts may be used only with written permission from the author and detailing of the
source.
Substantive suggestions or advice conveyed by word of mouth or in writing constitute the
intellectual property of their author and may only be used if the author's consent is obtained and the
origin given.
2.2. The scientist is concerned that recognition for scientific achievements goes to those
worthy of this recognition.
The offering of unwarranted co-authorship, the ceding of the authorship of a scientific
work to another person, the acceptance of ceded authorship and especially the requirement that
authorship be ceded are not permissible. Only the real author of a work is entitled to be deemed
such, and this is a right that cannot be dispensed with.
Only real creative input can justify inclusion as an author of a scientific work. Editorial or
technical assistance should be registered in the name of those proffering it, by way of an
acknowledgment. The fact of heading a scientific department does not of itself justify coauthorship.
2.3. The scientist's main motivation should be a desire for greater understanding and a
will to enrich the achievements of science. The goal should in turn be to know the
truth.
The scientist has the right and duty to claim his scientific priority. The date of publication,
or the date on which a manuscript is received by an editor, is decisive in determining priority. The
basis for establishing priority may also be the date on which a patent application was filed.
The publication of unreliable and inconclusive research results, as well as the transmission
of results in an undocumented publication, for example with the aim of ensuring priority, is not
permissible.
Both publications and reports of scientific activity must provide for repeatability by others.
New techniques in particular must be described precisely, with the results being given in full in an
objective and comprehensible manner. Statistical analysis or assessment is detailed, especially in
the case of any departure from the original design.
2.4. The scientist is obliged to be honest towards his/her sponsor or employer.
The scientist should only undertake tasks (and especially contracted tasks) for which he/she
possesses sufficient knowledge and skill. In other situations, he/she should impartially recommend
a party better prepared to carry out the task. The scientist should aim to perform a task (and
especially a contracted task) in the simplest and most economical way. The scope of research to be
done should be limited to that dictated by indispensable needs. Use of existing solutions - one's
own or those of others - should be clearly stated in the report and be taken into consideration in the
final calculation of costs of the sponsored task.
When research is commissioned by a sponsor, the contract there for must be drawn up in
accordance with the "Good Research Practice Guidelines". The steps taken to safeguard and make
use of intellectual property must be stated clearly, and the rights of both parties detailed. Rights to
the publication and use of such information as should be made available in the public interest or
submitted for the information of the relevant authorities will need to be agreed upon. Procedural
principles for arbitration in the event of variant interpretations of conditions should be established.
Prior to a contract's being entered into, there must be a clear expounding of the ascription of
intellectual property and material benefits from the use of the work. If important commercial
considerations rule out publication, and information touches upon the serious issues of health, the
environment or other matters of public concern, then it is the duty of the sponsor and chief
researcher to ensure the information passes to the relevant authorities or supreme bodies.
2.5. Scientific research should be conducted in a manner which does not degrade human
dignity or violate humanitarian principles.
Research of which the human being is the subject should be conducted in accordance with
internationally-accepted principles of the Helsinki Declaration and latter supplements thereto. In
using human beings as research subjects, scientists should respect the principle of voluntary and
conscious acceptance of participation in such research and the principles of confidentiality and
anonymity. If the research subject is a minor, then consent from his/her parents or legal guardians
should also be obtained. The person under study should have the right to withdraw his/her
participation while the research is ongoing.
In a situation in which research may prove painful, it is the duty of the scientist to analyze
the necessity of such research, to limit its extent, to minimize the level of affliction, and to restore
research subjects to the state they were in prior to the research.
The person under study should be fully advised as to the character, purpose and effects of
the research. Infringement of this norm is only permitted in the particular situations where prior
full information concerning research may undermine the value of the results. In such cases, the
previously concealed information should be presented to the subjects of research following its
completion. The right to refuse permission for the use of data obtained should be respected.
Research should not be carried out on a person whose personal freedom is curtailed.
Research on animals should only be conducted where necessary, and then in such a way that
suffering is not inflicted. In the case of painful research, the scientist has the duty to limit its scope
and to minimize the affliction.
2.6. Scientific research should be conducted in such a way as to not pose a threat to
humankind or society, or affect the natural and cultural environment thereof.
If such damage is unavoidable, then human interference in the environment should be
minimized, with restoration to the initial state being engaged in on completion of the work.
2.7. The scientist shares his/her achievements and knowledge with others.
The scientist is obliged to present the results of his/her work reliably and honestly,
conscious that scientific unreliability is harmful to both science and society. The scientist does not
conceal research results which are inconvenient or inconsistent with his/her working hypothesis; or
else an alternative hypothesis or means of interpretation. The scientist does not put any pressure on
other scientists to purposefully conceal the truth brought out by the research process.
The delayed announcement of the results of scientific work may only be justified in the
interests of science itself.
The scientist should show respect for other scientific disciplines and be prepared to
cooperate with representatives thereof
The scientist may file a claim for a patent. Such action should be aimed at protecting the
author's rights in the sphere of practice, not at limiting the free flow of scientific information.
Inventions may be patented, but not scientific discoveries.
2.8. The scientist does not engage in multiple publication with the purpose of expanding
his/her publication record.
If propagation of scientific achievements justifies publication of the same work in different
journals, then the editors should be informed and should give their consent. In such a situation, it is
necessary that the author cites his/her earlier publications of the same text, and clearly groups
together as one item repeated publications in his/her publication record.
In the devising of an author's own bibliography, all works subject to multiple publication
must be mentioned as one item.
2.9. The scientist refrains fromundue self promotion.
The press, radio and television may be used for the propagation of scientific achievements,
but not for the promotion of one's own person.
While a scientist is subordinate to publishers' requirements, it is advisable that he/she not
use titles and scientific degrees as an author of a scientific publication. Such information should be
given in a separate note.
2.10. The scientist avoids reference to titles and scientific degrees in pronouncements
which are outside his/her scientific competence.
He/she separates scientific opinions from other judgments, in particular not putting
science to propaganda purposes.
Chapter 3
THESCIENTIST AS MASTERANDBOSS
3.1. The scientist groups around him/herself and hires pupils in science on the basis of
an impartial evaluation of their intellectual, ethical and personal character
qualifications only.
The scientist should reveal and combat all manifestations of protectionism, corruption and
discrimination,
3.2. The scientist has the duty to look for and pay special attention to particularly capable
students, and to encourage them to undertake scientific work.
3.3. The scientist should, by word of mouth and personal example, pass on his/her
knowledge, skills and principles of good manners in science.
The scientist should instill responsibility for scientific development in his/her students and
co-workers.
3.4. The scientist treats his/her co-workers justly.
The scientist confers benevolence and assistance upon every pupil, does not burden them
with excessive duties and evaluates every co-worker in an incisive and conscientious manner not
dependent on extra-scientific circumstances.
As a supervisor he/she consults on promotion applications, and assigns funding and
awards according to the results and achievements of each co-worker.
3.5. The scientist does not pass on to his/her co-workers the execution of tasks which
he/she should perform in line with the scope of his/her duties.
3.6. The scientist avoids autocractic forms of management in his/her team.
On important scientific and organizational questions he/she asks his/her team for advice.
The scientist informs each co-worker of the general tasks of a research project and about the role to
be assigned to him/her. He/she ensures internal information exchange at every stage of the research
work. Personal links within the team are cultivated and an atmosphere of benevolent fellowship
created.
3.7. The scientist should take pleasure in the successes of his/her students, because they are
also his/her successes.
3.8. The scientist should neither support nor facilitate the entry into the scientific world
of persons lacking proper scientific and/ormoral qualifications.
The best way to comply with this requirement is through honest and just evaluation and
opinion.
3.9. Scientific institutions.
The heads of scientific institutions in which research is carried out are responsible for
creating a climate in which all are encouraged to attain the highest standard in their work. All
higher education establishments and research institutes should draw up rules for reliable scientific
work based on national and international models, in line with the specifics of the given discipline
and including a determination of responsibility for the leading of projects, and control over the
quality and reliability of work. The principles of good conduct should be instilled into young
scientists, who should be introduced, not only to the techniques needed to carry out their work,
but also to a feeling of responsibility for the integrity of the scientific knowledge built up and
accumulated, and for the reliability and honesty of their work.
The heads of scientific institutions should take care to ensure the development and futures
of young scientists. They should not put students straight onto excessively speculative work
outstripping their qualifications or level of preparation, as well as the time or material constraints.
Similarly, they should not leave them to carry out work of limited significance for their planned
development.
There should be scrupulous safeguarding and preserving - for at least ten years - of
documents of completed research, experimental protocols, obtained results and documentation of
all kinds, as well as financial calculations, reports and final texts of work. This is the duty not so
much of those leading research, who often do it themselves, but of the institutions in which work is
carried out.
Institutions responsible for the upkeep and supervision of science have a particular
responsibility to ensure that contacts with the entire scientific community are good. They should
review and assess the work of other institutions, and of individuals who sit on committees and
commissions, in order to ensure that their work is honest, transparent and reliable, as well as just
and fully confidential. The principles of the confidentiality of materials submitted for assessment,
their safeguarding and their timely return must in particular be heeded. The agencies distributing
funding for research must supply clearly-formulated informational guidelines that are widely
accessible to applicants, giving assessment criteria, timetables and details of the entire procedure.
Punishments for the submission of falsified data in applications should also be detailed.
Chapter 4
THE SCIENTIST AS TEACHER
4.1. The scientist treats his/her student with benevolence and due respect.
The scientist respects the human and civil rights due to the student. He/she respects and
upholds the right of students to free association, self government and membership in collegial
academic bodies, and treats the opinions of student communities about the progress of studies and
didactic lessons seriously.
4.2. The scientist takes care to ensure a steady improvement in the quality of teaching.
The content of lectures should accord with the present state of world science. If such
content should contradict the personal conviction of the scientist, he/she is obliged to add his/her
own comments. Lectures should take account of competing theories and interpretations of the
facts.
The scientist should conduct classes in an interesting form which is understandable for the
average-level student. He/she should ensure the proper outfitting of laboratories and libraries. The
timetables of classes should be prepared in a way most convenient for students. Excessive packing
of teaching classes in the course of a week, semester or academic year is to be avoided.
4.3. The scientist develops the independent and critical thinking of students, and respects
their right to free expression of opinions, including on scientific matters.
The abuse of the dependent relationship or advantage in terms of erudition compromises
the dignity of a scientist.
4.4. The scientist evaluates every student justly, on the basis of his/her achievements.
The scientist applies the same criteria and rating scale to all students.
4.5. The scientist treats confidentially information of a personal nature which he/she
has acquired from a student through didactic activities.
4.6. Apart from in line with official duties, the scientist refrains from expressing
negative opinions regarding his/her students, if such a pronouncement allows for the
persons concerned to be identified.
4.7. The scientist does not abuse his/her position or personal ties in regard to his/her
students.
If a scientist has links with any student extending beyond the purely professional, he/she
should not in any situation distinguish this student from others.
4.8. The scientist does not accept any payment or other profits from his/her students for
teaching activity.
Individual or group tutoring sessions, classes or consultations, paid directly by the
scientist's own students, are not permitted.
4.9. Particular compromissions of good conduct are, for example, the granting of paid
revision sessions to a scientist's own students or the writing of theses on their behalf.
Chapter 5
THE SCIENTIST AS CONSULTANT
5.1. Neither the promoter of, nor the consultant on, a doctoral thesis may engage in
work on its content to an extent that would entitle him/her to co-authorship rights.
Those taking on an obligation to assess applications, both in writing and via participation
in assessment or fund-distributing bodies; or to serve as a member of a competition jury, should
be asked to certify that their presence will not generate a conflict of interest.
5.2. The scientist expresses his/her opinion about the work and scientific achievements
of another scientist in an incisive, impartial and precise way.
All those taking part in and assuming responsibility for assessment of grant applications,
and all those sitting on editorial boards, should be asked to confirm in writing that any information
coming into their possession as they perform their function is confidential and may not be
conveyed to a third party except in line with the committee procedures in force. Nor may such
information be put to an individual's own purposes. Those participating should also take
appropriate steps to ensure that such information and materials are kept safely during the time they
are doing their work.
Trite or over-courteous positive opinions are not permitted, in just the same way as
malicious negative ones. Such opinions do not merely hurt other applicants and evoke bitterness in
the scientific community, they are also highly injurious to the public standing of science,
undermining its right to self government.
5.3. The scientist strives to prepare his/her opinion on time.
Intentional or neglectful delay in the preparation of an opinion is riot permitted.
5.4. When preparing an opinion orwork intended for publication, the scientist should evaluate
his/her competence to assess and confirmthe subjectmatter of the work, its scientific value
and the lack of evidentmistakes.
Only statements of a scientific character should be permitted for publication The substance
of a statement should enhance scientific knowledge or contribute to its dissemination. It should be
formulated with proper exactitude and criticism, while deductions included should be correctly
formulated and the text should attest to the author's competence in the field of science to which
the evaluated work belongs.
5.5. The scientist ensures that scientific criticism, discussion and polemics are engaged
in with due regard to the principles of respect, relevance and reliability.
All participants in discussion or polemics should be assured equal rights, regardless of
position or scientific title. The principle of relevance excludes argument ad personam from the
critique and polemics. The principle of reliability condemns deformation of the subject of a
critique made in order to mock the subject or facilitate imputation. The obstruction of responses to
criticism is not permitted.
5.6. In his/her critical and consultative activity, the scientist should be guided by his/her
own conscience and legal standards, as well as by drawing lessons from this code of
good manners in science,
Chapter 8
IHE SCIENTIST AS EXPERT
6.1. The scientist only undertakes to draw up an expert opinion within his/her field of
specialisation, and then only when this may be based on his/her appropriate
knowledge and experience
6.2. The scientist precedes every expert opinion with a clear statement as to in whose
name and for whom it is being drawn up.
6.3. The scientist prepares every expert opinion reliably, honestly and responsibly,
taking into account the current state of knowledge and a full cognizance of existing
facts and circumstances.
6.4. While preparing an expert opinion, the scientist neither takes into account the
expectations of the employer nor submits to pressure from it which would have any
influence on the substantive content of the opinion.
6.5. To avoid any suspicions of partiality, the scientist declines to prepare an expert
opinion wherein a part of the conclusions thereof could be linked with his/her
personal interest.
If such a case arises, the scientist should inform the employer of the reasons for which
he/she declines to prepare the expert opinion.
6.6. The information the scientist obtains in connection with the preparation of an
expert opinion should not be used against the employer or for his/her own unjustified
profit.
Where there is a conflict of interests, the scientist should rate the common good higher than
the interest of the employer.
Chapter 7
THE SCIENTIST AS PROMOTOROF SCIENCE
7.1. The scientist should propagate publicly reliable information about science and its
attainments, while not concealing any limitations.
The scientist does not refuse to cooperate with popular science journals, nor declines to
participate in popular lectures for the general public.
The scientist should expose and denounce pseudo-science which seeks to cloak itself in a
veil of scientific-sounding terminology.
7.2. The scientist respects the human rights to information and to know the truth, and
tries to facilitate exercising of this right.
The scientist considers it his/her duty to supply the public or interested groups with reliable
scientific information within the scope and to the degree necessary for the defense of interests and
proper understanding. The scientist opposes all attempts to block, distort or delay the provision of
such information.
Chapter 8
THE SCIENTIST AS A MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC
AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
8.1. In line with his/her interests and possibilities, the scientist should put his/her
knowledge, intellect and standing to practical use for the benefit of society and theworld.
Science is universal in nature, in the sense that "Polish science" cannot be spoken of, only
science in Poland. Reference to the priority of research in a country is of dubious value. This is
often a contribution rather than a scientific achievement.
8.2. The scientist should participate in the life of his/her own scientific circle, as well as
broaden contacts with the international scientific community.
The scientist should not refrain from taking up elected positions in his/her scientific
environment without an important reason. He/she should take an active part in the work of
collegial bodies. As a member of such bodies, he/she should pay most attention to the common
good of science, and only then to the good of his/her parent institution.
8.3. The scientist does not permit the standing of science or his/her own authority to be
used for publicity purposes and propaganda.
8.4. The scientist abides by the international principles and conventions on the shared
responsibility of academics.
This is particularly true of threats associated with the running of biological experiments
and the introduction of new industrial technologies, irrespective of any moral assessment of their
possible consequences for future generations.

Qatar Chemical Company Ltd.
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Qatar
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

INTRODUCTION AND PHILOSOPHY

The purpose of this policy is to ensure that all Q-Chem employees, contractors and business associates abide by applicable laws and conduct Company business according to the highest ethical standard; and to provide direction for business conduct, which sustains and promotes a culture of ethical integrity and cultivates strong teamwork and productivity. Attention to ethics in the workplace enhances the Company's reputation for honesty, integrity and reliability as well as assists in the management of values associated with quality management and strategic planning. 
Q-Chem is committed to the highest level of ethical conduct in our dealings with people, organizations and governments wherever we conduct business. Our reputation is fundamental to our business and the core values from which our industry prevails. Q-Chem cares about how it conducts business; therefore it will not compromise its ethics and integrity for any reason, including the achievement of business results.

SCOPE

This policy and its related procedures pertain to the implementation and control of Code of Ethics, Our Company Values and Responsibilities. This policy and related procedures apply to and are to be understood and adhered to by all Q-Chem Direct Hire employees, general contractors and secondees. This policy and its procedures, including related procedural updates and documentation shall be developed, trained, communicated and administered by the Human Resources Department with advice from Q-Chem's Auditor and Legal Manager. This policy and its procedures will replace and supersede all previous policies and procedures on Code of Ethics. Top

PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE
Q-Chem Human Resources will:
Establish clear vision and picture of integrity with respect to ethical conduct throughout the organization.
Minimize the possibility of unethical conduct by providing objectives and documented fair resolution of situations that are aligned with the vision of integrity.
Reinforce ethical behavior to employees which is embodied by management.
Require mandatory annual Computer Based Training and test on the Code of Ethics Policy of all employees.
Ensure the Materials Department revises all standard contracts to include ethics reporting procedures. Top
RESPONSIBILITIES

Employees and management are expected to comply with all aspects of the Code of Ethics policy and recognize that managing ethics is a process. Senior Management has the responsibility to ensure that the policy is understood, enforced and implemented by all Q-Chem employees and general contractors. Managers and Supervisors have a responsibility to set an example of the highest standard of ethical conduct and to monitor compliance with the Policies of all employees who report to them. Managers and Supervisors are responsible to direct any questions or concerns submitted by any employee directly to Senior Management or Human Resources for action or investigation. 
Employees are responsible to:

Seek guidance of their manager, supervisor or any member of Senior Management when any issue arises in respect to this policy.
Report any violation of this policy, illegal act or unethical behavior immediately to their Supervisor, Manager or Senior Management using the Code of Ethics. Non-Compliance Form procedure as outlined in this policy.
Familiarize themselves with the policy.
Exhibit loyalty in all matters pertaining to the affairs of Q-Chem and shall not knowingly be a part of any illegal, unethical or improper activity.
Take reasonable care when making business decisions and recommendations and shall reveal all facts to approving authorities of Q-Chem.
Complete a Code of Ethics mandatory Computer Based course annually.
Senior Management shall be responsible to ensure that the ethics policy is reviewed annually Human Resources shall identify and monitor ethical issues prior to occurrence of an incident.

The Training Department is responsible to provide the General Manager with an annual report identifying the status of the completed mandatory Computer Based course. Top 

DEFINITIONS

Company - shall refer to Qatar Chemical Company
Family - all persons employed and sponsored by the Company on indefinite contracts, definite contracts, secondment, consultancy assignments, acting as a worker or official of the Company including spouses, children, parents, parents-in-law, brothers or sisters.
Material Interest - refers to a financial interest of any kind, which in view of all the circumstances, is substantial enough that it would affect a person's judgment or decision making with respect to Q-Chem business dealings with Entities. An ownership or interest is substantial if an ordinary prudent person in a like position would reasonably conclude that such an interest would affect judgment with respect to Q-Chem business dealings.
Interest includes:

A direct or indirect material or financial interest through ownership of the shares or equity, and/or other interest held by an employee or his/her Family in an Entity doing business with the Company.
A position held by the employee acting in a capacity as sponsor, director, officer, partner, consultant, employee, distributor, agent, trustee or the like for suppliers, contractors, subcontractors, customers or other Entities doing business with the Company.
Intellectual Property - all of the propriety, intangible assets of the company such as patents, inventions, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or propriety information.
Conflict of Interest - Any situation that can cast doubt upon commitment to the best interests of the Company, including but not limited to the following:
The existence of an Interest for an Employee in an Entity, having a business relationship with the Company, irrespective of the department wherein the employee may be working.
The existence of an Interest for an Employee in any commercial activity of the Company.
Where an Employee's position or authority may be used to influence or make decisions in respect of Q-Chem transactions or activities that may lead to any form of financial or personal gain for that Employee or for his or her Family.
Situations in which financial or other personal considerations may compromise impartiality and/or judgment in the performance of duties for the Q-Chem.
Privacy of Information - The process of how information about individuals is collected, maintained and disclosed.
Senior Management - For purposes of this policy, Senior Management includes the GM, DGM or any of their direct reports. Top

6. POLICY

Q-Chem's strength is based on more than financial performance. Our values stem from honesty, trust, responsibility and integrity. Employees shall strive to obey the law and company policies at all times and make this code our personal standard for excellence and ensure that a high standard of quality is always maintained. 

Q-Chem is subject to laws not only in Qatar but in the country in which we do business and our employees are our best ambassadors. Changes in laws and our industry constantly present new ethical and legal issues. With this in mind, no set of guidelines should be considered the absolute last word.
The success of our business depends upon the quality of relationships between Q-Chem, employees, customers, suppliers and the general public. There will be no exception to this. 

Employees should avoid situations where the end result is the accomplishment of something that the Company could not legally or ethically do directly. 

This policy is not just about compliance with the law and general standards of ethics. By establishing this policy, employees acknowledge that our choices and actions help define Q-Chem for others. Our Code of Ethics is a tangible example of our values and an expression of each Q-Chem employee's personal responsibility to uphold those values and ethics. 

Employees who do not comply with the Ethics Policy may be in violation of their employment contract and will be subject to appropriate action disciplinary action as described in the company Discipline Policy. Violation of the Ethics Policy shall be considered an act of Gross Misconduct as defined in the Discipline Policy. 

Such actions or behaviors include but shall not be limited to any of the following:

Willful violation of any Q-Chem policy
Deliberate action that is extreme in nature and is detrimental to Q-Chem's efforts to operate safely and profitably.
Willful violation of security or safety rules or failure to observe safety rules or Q-Chem safety practices; failure to wear required safety equipment; tampering with Q-Chem equipment or safety equipment
Negligence or any careless action which endangers the life or safety of another employee or Q-Chem property
Insubordination or refusing to obey instructions properly issued by a direct, responsible supervisor.
Theft
Falsification of Q-Chem records
Threat of, or the act of doing bodily harm
Willful or negligent destruction of property
Revealing of or failing to maintain confidential information
Senior Management shall have the authority to investigate incidents that question any of the ethics as outlined in this policy should they occur.

Should Management find through their investigations that a violation of the Code of Ethics Policy has taken place, they shall immediately refer this incident to Human Resources for follow-up and appropriate action under the company Discipline Policy.

Our responsibility as employees falls under the following categories: Top 

CITIZENSHIP

Governments and their laws, agencies and employees are linked to Q-Chem's business. Q-Chem's employees perform functions that may require government oversight or involvement. Therefore, maintaining productive relationship with governments in the areas where we operate is essential to business success.
CONFIDENTIALITY
Our customers and suppliers entrust Q-Chem with important information relating to their business. The nature of this relationship requires maintenance of confidentiality. In safeguarding the information received, Q-Chem earns the respect and further trust of our customers and suppliers.
Any violation of confidentiality seriously injures Q-Chem's reputation and effectiveness. With this in mind, employees shall not disclose confidential information gained in the course of their employment except as necessary to perform their duties and only then with individuals who have a direct association with the transaction on a 'Need to Know' basis. 
Confidential information should neither be used for personal gain nor should it be used as a detriment to the welfare, interest or image of Q-Chem.
If a question exists or you are concerned about the appropriateness of releasing information to a vendor or customer, remember that you are not required to answer and we do not encourage you to do so. Instead search for the answer through your business unit's management. In looking for an answer, provide all the facts so the best course of action can be determined. Top

WORLDWIDE BUSINESS LAWS

Q-Chem is subject to laws, not only in Qatar but also around the world. It is the company's policy to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Employees, including management must understand the laws affecting their business activities and take responsibility for compliance. Q-Chem's interests are not served by unethical practices, even though these practices may not violate the law.
Employees who may be called upon to deal with government officials either in Qatar or other countries around the world shall provide truthful information and treat officials with courtesy and respect. Without exception, all laws and regulations shall be strictly followed with regard to payments, gifts or entertainment, business courtesies and conflicts of interest. In all aspects, our relationship with public officials must reflect the highest integrity and concern for reputation.
The country of Qatar and other countries have enacted a variety of laws relating to competition, and international trade. These laws are designed to preserve fair competition in the marketplace and stimulate economic growth worldwide. Q-Chem supports these laws and is committed to comply with them. Among the more significant are the types of laws described below.

Laws that prohibit companies from unfairly competing in the marketplace and encourage free enterprise. These laws are vital to our economic system and even verbal agreements and nonverbal gestures like winks and nods between two parties shall be considered a violation. These laws address price-fixing, monopolies, boycotts, trade restraints and other methods of restraining competition and trade practices.
International operations may be regulated both by domestic and foreign laws. International transactions frequently are complex and foreign laws have many distinctions. Employees engaged in international business must first be aware of these laws in order to ensure compliance.
Laws that prohibit bribery of foreign officials, require the Company to keep records that properly reflect transactions, and call for an internal auditing system that monitors accounting and other business activities.
Other laws address export controls and transactions with restricted countries. These laws occasionally may change and may apply to the export of certain commodities, software and technology.
It is essential that employees involved in such activities familiarize themselves with the applicable laws and regulations and shall conform with them. Top

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO PARENT SHAREHOLDERS
Q-Chem is required to maintain records that provide accurate and timely information about the Company and its activities. This is our obligation to our parent companies as well as management, creditors, government agencies and others. It is essential that employees follow established reporting procedures, provide accurate information and maintain confidentiality when required. 

PROPER RECORDING OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND TRANSACTIONS
It is Q-Chem' s policy to maintain appropriate books and records of assets, liabilities and business transactions. Financial and other business information shall be maintained under procedures and practices that accurately reflect the true nature of the transactions and accurately incorporate the relevant data. 
Accuracy of the Company's entire financial system depends upon individual entries. With this in mind, employees are expected to properly record business transactions in a timely manner regardless of whether the transaction is large or small including but not limited to the following:

Report accounts and financial transactions in the appropriate financial accounting system. There shall be no 'off the record' accounting transactions or accounts.
Prohibit making false or misleading entries in the accounts, records or reports.
Make all Q-Chem business transactions and accounts available to all external and internal audit authorities.
Properly authorize and accurately describe expenses and reimbursements which shall be business-related.
Prevent over or under invoicing of customers and vendors for any reason.
Ensure fees and commissions to consultants, agents and other third parties are legal, proper and consistent with industry practice.
Approve payment of finders, promoters or consultant fees shall be according to the Board of Director's Delegation of Authorities prior to payments being committed or paid.
Prevent secret or unrecorded funds from existing. Top

HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT
Q-Chem is committed to protecting the safety and health of our employees and to ensuring good environmental stewardship in Qatar. We are striving for continuous improvement in these areas and are committed to achieving compliance with safety, health and environmental regulations. 
Employees are expected to understand the laws and regulations affecting their business activities. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in risks for fellow workers, the Company, and others. Additionally, Q-Chem may establish additional safety policies that go beyond environmental regulations established by the State of Qatar.
Any employee who intentionally violates legal requirements related to health, environment and safety, or who intentionally fails to take reasonable steps to correct such violations, shall be subject to immediate disciplinary action as outlined in the Discipline Policy.
Intentional violations can result in penalties, fines or imprisonment of the employee who commits the violation. Employees are also responsible for knowing the corporate and operating unit policies regarding health, safety and environmental matters that apply to their jobs. If you have any questions, ask your supervisor or a safety or environmental professional. Top 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO FELLOW EMPLOYEES
Q-Chem strives to maintain a work environment that is pleasant, healthful, comfortable and free from intimidation, hostility, discrimination, harassment or other offences that might interfere with productivity. Working together productively is vital to business success. Treating one another professionally and with respect is good business.
Q-Chem believes in treating people with dignity, and providing fair employment opportunity for its employees in our development practices, including recruiting, compensation, professional development, and promotion. 
We believe in respecting human rights, providing safe and healthy working conditions, and in respecting employees' rights. We recognize that integrating the unique attributes and talents of our diverse work force contributes to more creativity and offers broader solutions to problems. These values extend throughout our organization. Top 

EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITY
Violations of the policies contained in this policy harm all employees and shareholders in the long run. They can cost money, cause injuries and damage assets. For these reasons, suspected violations shall be reported via the Code of Ethics Non-Compliance Form to your immediate supervisor, Department Manager or Senior Management as defined in this policy. Every effort will be made to safeguard confidentiality when requested. Reporting is considered confidential and no employee will suffer retaliation because of a report made in good faith. All reported violations shall be investigated by Senior Management. Many Q-Chem employees are responsible for administering or overseeing the work of contractors, agents or individuals associated with other organizations. When activities are handled by third parties on behalf of the Company, it is Q-Chem's policy that those activities will be performed in full compliance with the law and in accordance with this code. It is the responsibility of Q-Chem employees overseeing these individuals to communicate the Company's policies and to monitor their work to ensure compliance. Top

Q-CHEM'S RESPONSIBILITY
It is Company policy that no employee will suffer retaliation in any form for reporting suspected problems in good faith. Disciplinary action will be taken against anyone who retaliates directly or indirectly against an employee who reports a suspected violation of Q-Chem policies. Disciplinary action will also be taken against an employee who maliciously accuses another employee without proof.

PRIVACY OF INFORMATION
Q-Chem collects and maintains personal information which relates to your employment, including compensation, medical and benefit information. Q-Chem shall protect employee personal information wherever it is stored or processed. Employees who have access to personal information shall not disclose or distribute personal information without permission from the affected employee. Top 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST
The principle of conflicting interests is simple. Q-Chem employees shall neither compete with the Company nor shall they work for competitors. The best interest of the Company shall remain first priority. Conflict of interests occur in situations where a choice must be made between an employee's personal best interest and the best interest of Q-Chem. Every employee has an obligation to avoid financial or other outside relationships that could be adverse to the interests of the Company. This includes activities that might produce conflicting loyalties or interests and those interfering with effective job performance. Preventing situations in which a conflict of interest can occur include but are not limited to the following:
Establishing clear rules of conduct with respect to Conflict of Interest
Minimizing the possibility of Conflict of Interest arising between the private interests of employee and Company interest related to official duties of Employees and providing for the objective and fair resolution of such conflicts should they arise.
It is impractical to list every activity or interest that might constitute a conflict of interest. Therefore, it is imperative that employees understand their obligation not to use or appear to use one's position for personal gain and should refrain from becoming involved or place themselves in situations that may be perceived as conflicts. There are also many borderline situations that need evaluation based on all relevant information. Therefore, it is important that every employee be encouraged to disclose to his or her supervisor any situation that might involve a potential conflict of interest or the appearance of one. In many cases, full disclosure to the Company is all that is necessary to protect the Company's interest. In other cases, prompt elimination of the activity may be required. However, if an employee has knowingly failed to report a significant conflict, more drastic action, such as termination, could occur. Conflicts of interest include but are not limited to the following: 

Competitive Relationships
Company management approval is required if an employee holds an interest in a company in the same business lines as Q-Chem. This includes holding financial interests, either directly or indirectly as well as interests in enterprises that conduct substantial business with the Company. It may also be detrimental to the Company's interests for employees to do any work for a competitor or to accept any commission, fee or other form of compensation that is related to or influenced by the employee's job within the Company.
Relatives, Customers, Contractors and Suppliers
Situations may arise in which an employee's spouse, child or close relative is employed or has a financial interest with a customer, contractor or supplier to Q-Chem. Frequently this is not a problem, but the potential for conflicts of interest or the perception of impropriety may exist. Therefore, it is important that the employee disclose these situations in writing to management. Employees may have job duties with direct responsibility over a customer, contractor or supplier where a relative is employed. In addition to written disclosure and receiving approval from management, steps may be taken to minimize or eliminate the potential for a conflict of interest to occur. This may include reassignment of approval authority for the specific customer, contractor or supplier; more direct supervisor involvement; or reassignment to another job.

Misuse of Company Assets
Taking care of Q-Chem resources is every employee's responsibility. It is inappropriate for employees to take or use such resources to further personal interests without approval. Taking possession of Q-Chem equipment or materials without prior approval shall constitute theft and shall result in immediate disciplinary action, including but not limited to termination.

Entertainment, Gifts and Bribes
Conducting business with the expectation of obtaining something from a customer is unacceptable. Employees are prohibited from accepting any personal payments, bribes, loans or services from customers, contractors, suppliers, vendors or competitors unless that interest is declared by the employee in advance and approved by Senior Management. Each can be construed as a form of coercion or a part of a sum received often because of release or acceptance of confidential information. Employees may be required to dispose of the interest and must be removed or disqualified from any activity involved in the award or administration of contracts or purchases. Normal business courtesies may permit the acceptance of entertainment and gifts for employees or their families when such favors are customary in the business and are nominal. Any entertainment, gift, or favor that is too repetitive or carries a perception of influence or which imposes an obligation on the receiver or giver is inappropriate. Employees may be authorized to extend entertainment, gifts or favors to business associates under the following conditions: 

Prior approval is received from Senior Management
They are legal
They are not offered for a specific gain or specific action
They follow the generally accepted ethical standards of the country where the activity occurs
The value is modest and cannot be construed as illegal or improper
Public disclosure would not embarrass the Company

USE OF COMPANY NAME OR PROPERTY
Employees shall not use the Company's name, property or purchasing power for their own personal gain including but not limited to the following:
Diverting business opportunities form the Company for personal gain
Recommending an acquisition of an item that is owned by the employee, a relative or associate without proper disclosure
Use of Q-Chem telephone number, job title, address or business card to promote or carry on a personal business
Operate equipment in a Company shop after hours to repair or construct personal articles
Solicit donations form local merchants, contractors and suppliers in the name of Q-Chem
Use of Q-Chem property for personal interests Top

USE OF INTERNET AND E-MAIL
Q-Chem's information and communication system, including connections to the Internet and E-Mail system, are vital to our business and shall strictly be used for conducting Q-Chem business or for other incidental purposes. Inappropriate use as outlined in the Q-Chem Computer Systems Policy shall be considered misuse of Q-Chem assets and is a violation of the Ethics policy and shall be subject to disciplinary action. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
All intellectual property, inventions, technology developed or conceived by employees during or as a result of their employment with Q-Chem, which are known, or could reasonably be anticipated to be of direct benefit to Q-Chem shall be reported and will become the property of Q-Chem.
Q-Chem also recognizes and respects the legal rights of other Companies and employees on ownership and use of intellectual property. With this in mind, Q-Chem will:

Comply with copyright laws and respect the rights of owners of films, videos, books, written materials and computer software.
Prohibit infringement or illegal use of any trademark, patent, trade secret or proprietary technology or information belonging to a third party.
Take appropriate measures to ensure Q-Chem's intellectual or proprietary assets are not infringed upon or misappropriated by others. Top

TENDERING, CONTRACTING AND PROCUREMENT
Q-Chem's policies and procedures for the procurement of goods and services, tendering and awarding contracts must be adhered to strictly, including but not limited to the following:
Award all contracts on the basis of competitive bids, except in circumstances where a negotiated bid is expressly authorized or a bid waiver is obtained.
Ensure Q-Chem's actions with respect to bidders or potential bidders shall be fair, ethical and beyond reproach.
Proper review and approval of all contracts shall occur within the authorities delegated.
Protect Q-Chem's business, operational, financial and legal interests
Ensure technical and commercial evaluations of all proposals are thorough and objective.
Avoid disclosure of information either directly or indirectly to a potential bidder to enhance competitive advantage or reciprocal dealing which would result in personal gain or be detrimental to the welfare, interest or image of Q-Chem. Top
PROCEDURE 
Employee
1. Thoroughly read this policy.
2. Complete the TRACS Mandatory Training assigned by Training Department
Training Department
1. Assign mandatory training class to all Q-Chem employees, contractors and secondees.
2. Provide a report of employees who do not complete the mandatory training class and provide to Human Resources Manager, employee's supervisor and Senior Management.
Human Resources Manager

1. Enforce Discipline Policy for employees who fail to complete mandatory computer based training and test. Top
RELATED DOCUMENTS
Computer Systems Policy
Safety Policies and Procedures
Discipline Policy
APPENDICES / ATTACHMENTS / FORMS
Code of Ethics Non-Compliance Form
Qatar Petroleum
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Qatar
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

QATAR PETROLEUM REGULATIONS RELATED TO THE CODE OF ETHICS
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section (1) - Purpose and Objective
The purpose of these regulations is to ensure the compliance by the Corporation and its Employees with internationally recognized and accepted business and ethical standards.
The objective of these regulations is to enhance the confidence of outside Entities in the integrity of the Corporation and its Employees by:
   establishing  clear  rules  of  conduct  with  respect  to  ethical  conduct  for,  and  post employment practices applicable to all Employees; and
   minimizing  the  possibility  of  unethical  conduct  and  providing  for  the  objective  and fair resolution of such should they arise.

Section (2) - Scope Of Application
These  regulations  apply  to  all  Corporation  Employees.  All  Corporation  Employees  must comply with these Regulations.

DUTIES OF EMPLOYEES
Section (3) - General Obligation
Ethics and integrity are the responsibility of  every  Employee.  Employees  shall  therefore have an obligation to exercise utmost fairness, honesty, objectivity, and diligence and maintain an exemplary level of ethical behavior in the performance of their duties for the Corporation, and shall reject bribery in all its forms.

Section (4) - Conduct
Employees shall exhibit loyalty in all matters pertaining to the affairs of the Corporation and shall not knowingly be a part of any illegal, unethical or improper activity.

Section (5) - Decisions and Recommendations
Employees shall take all reasonable care when making business decisions and recommendations and shall reveal all material facts to approving authorities of the Corporation.

Section (6) - Compliance with Laws and Regulations
Employees shall in the performance of  their  duties  for  the  Corporation  take  reasonable care to acquaint themselves and to comply  with  applicable  laws,  regulations  and Corporation policies and procedures. Unlawful acts or breaches in Corporation policy or procedure are not acceptable whatever the jurisdiction. Good motives are not an excuse for committing illegal acts or breaches in Corporation policy and procedure.

Section (7) - Accounts and Records
Employees shall maintain accurate accounts and records of all commercial dealings, payments and receipts conducted or made for and on behalf of the Corporation. These records shall as accurately as reasonably possible reflect the business transactions of the Corporation and the disposition of its assets. Employees shall not make any false or misleading entries in the accounts or records of the Corporation.

Section (8) - Interest of the Corporation
Employees shall always employ all reasonable endeavors to act in the interests of the Corporation in the performance of their duties.

Section (9) - Continuous Improvement
Employees shall continually  strive  for  improvement  in  the  proficiency  and  effectiveness of their work for the Corporation.

Section (10) - Discrimination
Employees shall treat all persons fairly regardless of such factors as race, color, national origin, sex, marital status, age, religion, creed or political belief, physical handicap or disability, or status.

PROHIBITED DEEDS

Section (11) - Confidentiality
Employees shall not disclose Confidential Information gained in the course of their employment, except as necessary to perform their duties and then  only  on  a  “need  to know” basis. Such information shall also not be used for personal gain, or in a way that may be detrimental to the welfare, interest or image of the Corporation.
Confidential Information means any and all information directly or indirectly disclosed or provided by or on behalf of the Corporation, in whatever format and irrespective of the medium in which it is contained, acquired or produced by the Corporation, its affiliates, joint   venture   partners,   contractors   or   suppliers,   including   without   limitation,   plans,
budgets, agreements, drawings, reports, specifications, calculations, and  all  other documents and information relating to the customers, business, assets or affairs of the Corporation.
In addition to the above, Employees shall adhere to the Corporate Information Security Guidelines GD-CIS-001, as amended from time to time.

Section (12) - Preferential Treatment
Employees shall not provide any information  or  assistance  to  Entities  in  their  dealings with the  Corporation  where  such  assistance  or  information  may  potentially  benefit  such an Entity above other Entities in their dealings with the Corporation, or where  the provision of such assistance or information may potentially be construed as preferential treatment for any Entity.

Section (13) - Sexual Harassment
Employees of the Corporation shall not sexually harass or sexually intimidate  other people.

DISCIPLINARY ACCOUNTABILITY

Section (14) - Disciplinary Accountability
Every employee who violates the provisions of these regulations shall be disciplinarily accountable.

Section (15) - Disciplinary Action
The Corporation’s Disciplinary Committee shall review reports on violation of these Regulations. The Disciplinary Committee shall decide on the  appropriate  disciplinary action in accordance with the Corporation’s established disciplinary procedures.

DEFINITIONS
In applying the provisions of these regulations, the following words and expressions shall have the meanings shown against each of them, unless the context otherwise requires:

1   Affiliate:  Means an Entity, that directly or indirectly controls, or is
controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation. For the purposes of these Regulations, "control" will mean:
(a) ownership    or    control,    whether    directly    or
otherwise, of more than 50% of all the  equity share capital, voting capital, or the like of the controlled Entity;
(b) control or the power  to  control  the  composition of, or power to appoint more than 50% of the members of the board of directors, board of management, or other  equivalent  or  analogous body of the controlled Entity; or
(c) entitlement to receive more than 50% of any, but not necessarily  every,  income  or  capital distribution made by the controlled Entity (either upon declaration of dividends, liquidation, winding-up, dissolution, or otherwise);
2   The Corporation:    Qatar Petroleum, and its wholly owned Affiliates.
3   Employee(s) Any employee, worker or official of the Corporation.

4   Entity(ies) Any person, organization,   corporation,    company,
partnership, trust or estate other than the Corporation.
Reliance Industries
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: India
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

CODE OF CONDUCT
1   INTRODUCTION
1.1 “Our Code” is a public statement that Reliance is committed to doing the right thing. It serves as a valuable resource to help employees and others make informed, ethical decisions based on guiding principles.
1.2 “Our Code of Conduct” lays down responsibility and expectation required to follow principles and objectives set by “Our Code”.
Code of Conduct
1.3 Because no code of conduct can cover every possible situation Reliance relies on you to use good judgment and to speak up when you have questions or concerns.
2   OUR RESPONSIBILITY
2.1 Employee  responsibilities
a.  Read and be familiar with the information in our Code

b.  Affirm annually that you have acted in accordance with our Code

c.  Act in a manner that is safe, ethical and consistent with applicable laws and regulations and Our Code.
d.  Raise questions and concerns if you become aware of possible violations of our Code of Conduct.
e.  Cooperate fully when responding to an investigation or audit.
2.2 Additional responsibilities of managers
Be a positive role model and support your team members by:
a.  Creating an environment that is respectful and inclusive
b.  Encouraging them to speak up
c.  Listening and responding to concerns when they are raised.
d.  Doing your part to make sure that no one experiences retaliation for speaking up or cooperating in an investigation
e.  Help your team members understand the requirements of our Code and applicable laws
f.  Be consistent when enforcing our requirements and holding people accountable for their behavior at work.
2.3 Additional responsibilities of Directors:
Directors shall also be responsible to perform the duties specified as per Companies Act, 2013 and other relevant laws. Duties of Independent directors are specified in Clause 9 of this Code of Conduct.
2.4 Zero tolerance on retaliation
Reliance does not tolerate retaliation. We consider acts of retaliation to be misconduct. Retaliation can take many forms, for example: threats, intimidation, exclusion, humiliation, and raising issues maliciously or in bad faith.
If you think that you or someone you know has experienced retaliation, contact any of the resources mentioned as per “How you can speak up”.
2.5 Speak up:
Each of us has a responsibility to speak up if we see something unsafe, unethical or potentially harmful. If you have a question, need help or want to raise a concern you have several options.
Please refer to the 'How you can speak up' decision tree below for these options How you can speak up?
Can you speak to your line manager about your concern?
Yes
Contact your line Manager
No
Can you speak to another manager in your team?
Yes
Speak to other management in your team
No
Can you contact a relevant supporting function?
Yes
Contact supporting organization
No
Is matter related to reportable matter as per Vigil Mechanism?
Yes
Contact the Ethics & Compliance Taskforce
No
Contact HR – Business Partner
*  Ethics & Compliance Taskforce comprises the Reliance Group Head of Audit, the Reliance Group Controller, the Reliance Group Head of HR and Representative from Chairman's Office and Secretarial and a Senior Lawyer. It reports to the Audit Committee
3   OPERATING SAFELY, RESPONSIBLY AND RELIABLY
Our Expectations:
1.1.    Always operate safely and securely
We must be vigilant, disciplined, and always looking out for one another. Threats, intimidation and violence will not be tolerated. Each of us is a role model for safety.
a.  Do not undertake work that you are not qualified to perform
SAFETY FIRST
b.  Stop work on your own or others', if you consider it unsafe
c.  Play your part in protecting the environment – make it a personal priority
d.  Be sure that your performance is not impaired, for example by a lack of sleep, alcohol, or any other drugs.
e.  Expect and encourage contractors and others with whom we work with to comply with applicable Health, Safety, Security and Environment requirements
f.  Report any accident, injury, illness, or unsafe condition immediately. Never assume that someone else has reported or will report a risk or concern
g.  Know the emergency procedures that apply where you work
4   OUR PEOPLE
Our Expectations:
4.1 Equal opportunity is a matter of fairness, respect and dignity
We value the unique contribution that each person brings to Reliance.
a.  Treat everyone with respect
b.  Be respectful of cultural differences. Base your work related decisions on merit – not on race, color, national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, disability, or any other characteristic.
c.  Offensive messages, derogatory remarks and inappropriate jokes are never acceptable
4.2 Provide a workplace that is free from harassment and intimidation We do not tolerate any form of abuse or harassment.
a.  Help create a work environment free of all forms of harassment
b.  Inappropriate comments of a sexual nature or any other sexually offensive behavior will not be tolerated
4.3 Personal relationships in the workplace
We respect the privacy of our employees, but recognize that personal relationships may interfere with work.
a.  Employees may not have an intimate relationship with another employee if they have any influence over the other employee's salary or career path.
b.  If such a relationship exists, it must be reported to management.
4.4 Protecting personal information
We respect your privacy and will only take an interest in what you do outside of work if it affects Reliance's reputation or legitimate business interests.
a.  Label and treat personal information as 'Confidential'
b.  If in doubt consult your HR Business Partner
OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS
Our Expectations
5.1 Build and maintain relationships with suppliers and business partners
We seek to work with others who share our commitments to safety and ethics and compliance.
a.  Communicate clearly our relevant expectations to our suppliers and business partners, agreeing contractual obligations where applicable.
b.  Take the appropriate measures if they do not meet those expectations or obligations.
5.2 Appropriately exchange gifts and entertainment

We do not accept or provide gifts or entertainment in return for any business, services or confidential information or if the intent is to bias a decision.
a.  Do not offer or accept bribes, kickbacks or any other kind of improper payment including facilitation payments
b.  In some exceptions, where gifts and entertainment is required to conduct business, you may receive them up to individual transaction value of INR 1000 only with full disclosure to your Line Manager.
5.3 Be proactive and manage conflicts of interest
A conflict of interest may occur when your interests or activities affect your ability to make objective decisions for Reliance. Disclose such situations to the Ethics & Compliance Taskforce. For example:
a.  Outside jobs and affiliations with competitors, customers or suppliers
b.  You are advised to avoid conducting the Company's business with a relative, or with a business in which a relative is associated in any significant role
c.  Investments, including those of close relatives, which might influence or appear to influence your judgment
d.  Management Personnel are required to obtain approval from the Ethics & Compliance Taskforce before accepting any directorship / assignment in any company other than Reliance Group Companies, Subsidiaries, and Associates etc.
5.4 Avoid Anticompetitive Conduct
Competition and Antitrust laws are complex and often fact specific. For this reason, if you have any questions consult our Legal team. Do not engage in the activity like any form of agreement or understanding with competitors to fix prices, rig bids, allocate customers and/or restrict supply.
5.5 Preventing money laundering
Money laundering is the process of hiding illegal funds or making them look as though they are legitimate. It also covers the use of legitimate funds to support crime or terrorism.
a.  Never become involved in money laundering
Know who you are doing business with by following our counterparty due diligence procedures
THE GOVERNMENTS AND COMMUNITIES WE WORK WITH
Our Expectations
6.1 Engage with communities and respect their rights and dignity
We want to be a trusted neighbor in the communities where we operate. We encourage participation in the local community.
a.  Be aware of the potential for the appearance of conflicts of interest and discuss any concerns with your line manager
b.  Notify your line manager or your Corporate Affairs team in advance of speaking with representatives of community organizations or non-governmental organizations (NGO)
6.2 Commitment to human rights
We seek to conduct our business in a manner that respects the human rights and dignity of people. We play a role in the elimination of human rights abuses such as child labor, human trafficking and forced labor.
6.3 Public communications and protecting Reliance's reputation
It is essential that our public communications are clear, accurate, consistent and responsible.
a.  Remember that your social posts and comments are not anonymous and can negatively impact Reliance's reputation
b.  Only authorized persons can talk to the media or members of the investment community; contact the Corporate Communication team or Investor Relations for advice.
c.  External presentations can be an excellent way to share our expertise with others, but make sure you have the required approvals before accepting any invitation and obtain the necessary approvals on content
6.4 Our stance on political activity
As an individual, you have the right to personally participate in the political process. However, you need to make it clear that your personal views and actions are not those of Reliance.
a.  Do not use company funds or resources to support any political candidate or party
b.  Holding or contesting an election for any political post by any employee is discouraged as it could interfere with the performance and discharge of responsibilities towards the Company.
c.  If any employee decide to consider a political post, the same shall be disclosed to the Ethics & Compliance Taskforce.
OUR ASSETS AND FINANCIAL INTEGRITY
Our Expectations
7.1 Maintain accurate and complete information and records
Our stakeholders rely on our accurate and complete disclosures and business records. Such information is also essential within Reliance so that we can make good decisions.
a.  Ensure all transactions are properly authorized, recorded and reported, as required
b.  Follow applicable laws and Reliance Requirements when creating, maintaining, retaining or destroying documents including those in electronic formats
7.2 Protect Reliance's assets
Company assets include facilities, property and equipment, computers and IT systems, information, corporate opportunities and funds.
a.  Make sure our assets are not applied for personal benefit and/or benefit of your related party
b.  Make sure your user IDs and passwords are secure
c.  Limited personal use of computer equipment, phones, email and internet access will usually be acceptable
d.  Do not share Reliance information in public forums or on social media.
7.3 Do not engage in corporate opportunities
You should not engage in any corporate opportunities except as may be approved by the Board of Directors as per delegation of authority.
7.4 Do not engage in insider dealing
a.  Trading in Reliance's securities when you have inside information, or sharing it with others is illegal and can result in severe penalties. Never indulge in forward dealings in securities of the Company. Both these are prohibited activities
b.  Never buy or sell any Reliance's or any companies' securities if you have inside information
c.  Never spread false information to manipulate the price of listed securities
d.  Trading indirectly when in possession of inside information, for example through family members or others, or providing 'tips' is also prohibited
e.  Follow the same principles in relation to inside information in respect of other listed companies
f.  Remember these rules continue to apply even when you are no longer a Reliance employee
If in doubt, check with Legal or Company Secretary's office
 8  VIGIL MECHANISM
We have established the Ethics & Compliance Taskforce to process and investigate Protected Disclosures. “Protected Disclosures” are disclosures of a Reportable Matter.
8.1.    Reportable Matter' means a genuine concern concerning actual or suspected:
a.  fraudulent practices, such as improperly tampering with RIL books and records, or theft of company property;
b.  corruption, including bribery and money laundering;
c.  Breaches of the Code of Conduct.
8.2.    Contact Details:
Protected Disclosures are to be made to the Ethics & Compliance Taskforce as follows:
a.  by email to ethics.taskforce@ril.com ;
b.  by telephone to the Whistle-blower Hotline - +91-22-44771333; or
c.  by letter addressed to the Ethics & Compliance Taskforce, marked “Private and Confidential”, and delivered to the Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Taskforce, Reliance Industries Limited, Maker Chamber IV, 3rd Floor, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021.
Moreover, in exceptional cases, employees have a right to make Protected Disclosures directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as follows:
a.  by email to audit.committee@ril.com ; or
b.  by letter addressed to the Audit Committee, marked “Private and Confidential”, and delivered to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Reliance Industries Limited, Maker Chamber IV, 3rd Floor, 222, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021.
We treat the identity of the whistleblower and the fact that a Protected Disclosure has been made as confidential.
For more details refer ''Vigil Mechanism and Whistle Blower Policy”
9   DUTIES OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
Independent Directors, besides, the duties specified in the Companies Act, 2013, shall also perform the below mentioned duties:
a.  undertake appropriate induction and regularly update and refresh their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company;
b.  seek appropriate clarification or amplification of information and, where necessary, take and follow appropriate professional advice and opinion of outside experts at the expense of the Company;
c.  strive to attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Board committees of which they are members;
d.  participate constructively and actively in the committees of the Board in which they are chairpersons or members;
e.  strive to attend the general meetings of the company;
f.  where they have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action, ensure that these are addressed by the Board and, to the extent that they are not resolved, insist that their concerns are recorded in the minutes of the Board meeting;
g.  keep themselves well informed about the company and the external environment in which it operates;
h.  not to unfairly obstruct the functioning of an otherwise proper Board or committee of the Board;
I. pay sufficient attention and ensure that adequate deliberations are held before approving related party transactions and assure themselves that the same are in the interest of the Company;
j.  ascertain and ensure that the Company has an adequate and functional vigil mechanism and to ensure that the interests of a person who uses such mechanism are not prejudicially affected on account of such use;
k.  report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the company's code of conduct or ethics policy;
l.  acting within his authority, assist in protecting the legitimate interests of the company, shareholders and its employees;
m.  n o t  d i s c l o s e  c o n f i d e n t i a l i n f o r m a t i o n , i n c l u d i n g commercial secrets, technologies, advertising and sales promotion plans, unpublished price sensitive i n f o r m a t i o n , u n l e s s s u c h disclosure is expressly approved by the Board or required by law.
 (This document was approved by the Board of Directors at its Meeting held on January 16, 2015)
 
Royal Society of Chemistry (Spain)
Region: WEOG
Country: Spain
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct and Guidance on Professional Practice Royal Society of Chemistry A profession demands advanced learning, practical experience and judgement in the application of special skills and is governed by a code of ethical conduct and practice. Those who claim professional status must, individually and as a whole, adhere strictly to the code and carry out their duties accordingly. 
The Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) is both a learned society and a professional body. Under its Royal Charter it has a paramount duty to serve the public interest. The RSC is responsible for fostering the advancement of chemical science and for certifying the competence and maintaining the integrity of its members. 
Under the terms of its Charter, those members of the RSC who are entitled to use designatory letters are encouraged to do so in a professional context, to enhance both their own status and the standing of the RSC. 
The RSC requires all members individually to uphold its Charter commitments, and has Disciplinary Regulations and procedures to ensure that high professional standards are maintained. There is a comprehensive and continuous duty on all members to act in such a way as to uphold the dignity and reputation of the profession and of the RSC itself, and to conform to any specific requirements that the RSC may prescribe in connection with particular circumstances. 
The RSC provides advice, through this booklet, on its web site, and, when necessary, on a personal basis, to guide members on their professional duties and responsibilities. The guidance offered in this booklet applies to all fields of chemical activity; it is intended to complement but not to conflict with more specific advice or legislation that may apply to particular industries or professional pursuits. 
The booklet supports the RSC‘s Code of Conduct and reflects the policies and views of the RSC Council and may be cited in any disciplinary inquiry. If a member is adversely criticised in a published report, or in the courts, such criticism may be regarded by the RSC as evidence of discreditable conduct and, if so, action under the RSC‘s Disciplinary Regulations will be considered. 
The booklet‘s main purpose, however, is to help members to deal with the demands of their working lives and to cope with ethical problems. The RSC is always willing to help its members who have doubts about the ethics of any proposed course of action and can offer more specific guidance if necessary. 
2. CODE OF CONDUCT THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF CHEMISTRY 
The Council of the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) has adopted the following Code of Conduct. 
1.  This Code of Conduct is applicable to all members (Honorary Fellows, Fellows, Members, Associate Members and Affiliates). 
2.  All members, having subscribed to the declaration as required under paragraphs 6 and 13 of the By-laws, have a duty to 

-observe the provision of the Charter and By-laws of the RSC and any regulations made under them -maintain the highest standards of competence and integrity, especially in carrying out any statutory duties relevant to a particular appointment or area of employment -have regard at all times to the public interest 
-further the interests of and maintain the dignity and welfare of the RSC 
3. In order to fulfil their duty under this Code, members shall give due attention to any general guidance on professional conduct, together with advice on specific issues, and shall conform to any rulings on such matters that may be approved and issued from time to time by the Council of the RSC. 
Members are reminded of the declaration signed on taking up membership of the RSC (as required under By-laws 6 and 13): 
"I, the undersigned, do hereby declare that, while a member of the Royal Society of Chemistry, I will observe the provisions of the Charter and By-laws and any regulations made under them, and that I will conduct myself honourably in the practice of my profession and will further the interests and maintain the dignity and welfare of the RSC for as long as I shall continue to be a member." 
3. GUIDANCE ON PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE 
RSC members as professionals 
The RSC demands rigorous standards of professional conduct; a lapse on the part of a member may have serious consequences. By taking a thoughtful and positive attitude towards their professional duties, members can solve for themselves most of the problems involving their duty to their employers and the community. 
If a member, after careful consideration of the situation and, where possible, consultation with a respected senior colleague, remains in doubt about the right course of action, he or she should not hesitate to consult the RSC for impartial and constructive advice. The advice will be based on a unique fund of accumulated knowledge and experience and, should the need arise, is an important advantage of being a member of the RSC. 
Members have responsibility for maintaining, improving and broadening their knowledge and skills to ensure continuing competence throughout their careers. This process is known as Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and is of increasing importance to all professional people. CPD can be carried out in a number of ways, for example through courses or seminars or by reading professional journals or networking with other professionals. 
It is in members‘ own interests to be able to demonstrate to others that they have been undertaking appropriate CPD. Ongoing CPD is part of the assessment process for the award of the Chartered Chemist designation and holders of the designation should be able to demonstrate that they have developed and maintained competence in their chosen field. 
RSC members and employment 
As employees -ethical obligations 
Members in all fields of employment should: 
-fulfil their contractual responsibilities in letter and in spirit 
-in serving the interests of their employer in good faith and to the best of their ability, always keep in mind the obligation to serve the public interest and maintain and enhance the reputation of the profession 
How these principles are interpreted will vary from one job to another, but all members have an obligation to 
-apply knowledge and skills to the best of their ability 
-share with the employer a high degree of trust and confidence 
-accept and carry out lawful instructions from a superior, subject to the right to have reservations put on record, and to request access to higher authority on matters of importance 
-avoid any actions that could be interpreted as being of a discriminatory nature 
-accept that resignation or dismissal may be the ultimate consequence of sustained protest on a matter of conscience or judgement 
Members of the RSC may occasionally face difficulties that arise from pressure exerted upon them by others (individuals or organisations) to engage in, or condone, action that is in conflict with professional integrity and the ethical principles that the RSC requires them to observe. The RSC recognises that it has a role to fulfil regarding members who are considering speaking out against alleged wrong-doing on the part of an employer or others. It has procedures for investigating allegations of questionable behaviour on the part of non-members (as individuals or organisations) that are brought to the RSC‘s attention by members. 
Most situations involving ethical problems can be solved by approaching a superior who, after all, is usually subject to the same ethical obligations. If there is a serious dispute with an employer that cannot be resolved, members should consult the RSC for advice and for support in professional matters. Members in small organisations may feel particularly exposed. They may have no scientific colleagues and they may have to face pressure to act unprofessionally. In these circumstances, the RSC may be approached in strict confidence. 
As employees -contractual obligations 
When members become employed, most of the contractual rights and obligations will be specified, either in a formal contract of service, or a letter of appointment. In any case, all employers in the UK are obliged to produce a document containing the main conditions of service. 
There are also obligations, some legally enforceable, that arise from the relationship between the member and the employer. These apply even if they are not set down in writing. The main obligations in summary are -to give loyal, willing and diligent service -to deal honestly with the employer‘s property and facilities -to provide whatever skills and competence were claimed when entering employment -to fulfil legal obligations specific to the field of employment 
-to be willing to adopt new and improved methods of working, and to accept training -to obtain the employer‘s permission, and to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest, before undertaking outside roles or additional employment 
-not to obtain, attempt to obtain, or accept, any bribe, secret commission or inducement of any sort 
-not to use information obtained by virtue of the employment to the detriment of the employer; and not to divulge secret information acquired in the course of employment (both during and after employment, without time limit) -to allow and assist the employer to profit fully from discoveries and inventions arising from the normal duties of the 
employment (there may be a legal provision for an employee to derive benefit from an innovation of outstanding benefit to the employer) 
Trades union membership and industrial action 
Membership of a trades union can bring benefits to employees. The RSC has no objection either to trades union membership or to participation in collective bargaining. Many members of the RSC are in fields of employment where official negotiating machinery is in place, and belong to bodies which fulfil the functions of a trades union, whether they are described as such or not. 
Participation in industrial action is not, in itself, unethical but there should be no situation in which members are obliged to take part in industrial action against their own wishes. 
Industrial action may conflict with the primary duties of any member to serve the public interest. 
Industrial action will almost certainly represent a breach of the employee‘s contract of employment and may also go against the fundamental principal of trust and confidence between an employee and employer. It is open to interested parties to seek to resolve disputes by negotiation or arbitration. 
Some contracts of service specify that disputes which cannot be resolved by negotiation be referred to an arbitrator. The RSC commends this arrangement. 
As managers or employers 
Members who are in managerial positions, or who are employers, have professional responsibilities by virtue of their position; they will influence others by giving instructions and by example. In addition to meeting the ethical and contractual requirements that may apply (see previous sections), members have an obligation to 
-recognise the right of professional subordinates to exercise their discretion -facilitate the professional development of all employees -provide equal opportunities for all employees -be accurate and fair in appraising the work of others -provide informative and constructive references -resolve conflicts in accordance with clear procedures -be strictly impartial when discussing redundancies or promotions -ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements 

Self-employed members 
Much of the advice in the sections relating to the obligations of employees and managers is also applicable to members who are self-employed. 
RSC members in education 
Members engaged in teaching at any level have a special responsibility in that they lay the foundations on which scientific and professional standards will ultimately be built. They have an obligation not only to their students but also to the profession as a whole, because its future may be markedly determined by their influence on those of their students who choose to become members of the RSC. In addition to their other duties, they should set an example to their students. 
Members in further and higher education have an important influence on the ultimate professional and ethical standards of their students. The highest standards of personal integrity and attention to accuracy should be exercised in chemical investigations and in the recording of results since anything less is unscientific and incompatible with high professional standards. In addition to imparting accurately the appropriate factual and scientific information, members should be aware of the ethical and societal implications of their work. The societal and environmental effects of chemical discovery should be a focus throughout a scientist's training, and teachers of chemistry and related sciences at all levels should emphasise these aspects. 
Members who have a responsibility for the health and safety of students in laboratories must ensure that they and their students observe all relevant safe practices. 
On occasion a conflict of interest may develop between responsibilities for the students and to the institution. An example is where management decisions are taken in the overall interest of the institution but which have an adverse effect on a particular group of students. In such cases the member must weigh up all the facts in the particular circumstance and may wish to talk confidentially to the RSC about the dilemma. 
RSC members as consultants 
All consultants must maintain a confidential relationship with clients, and must not divulge information obtained from clients to a third party. This may preclude the consultant from accepting work from another client working in the same field as an existing client. 
At the outset of any consultancy work, the consultant and client should agree on 
-a clear understanding of the objective of the consultation 
-working arrangements 
-the assignment of any patents arising out of the consultation 
-the scope and manner of reporting including any publication 
-the estimated cost, or the basis for charging 
Consultants should ensure that they have sufficient Professional Indemnity Insurance cover. 
The main duty of a consultant is to further the interest of the client, but there are also duties towards other consultants. Members must not attempt to poach other consultants‘ clients by attacking the consultants‘ reputations or improperly soliciting for work. 
Consultants may have direct contact with the public, and so have a considerable influence on the perception of the profession. 
RSC members and society 
Serving the public interest 
All members have responsibilities arising from their fundamental duty to serve the public interest and should be concerned with the progress of their science and with the use to which it is put. The RSC expects members to use their skills to advance and safeguard the welfare of humanity, particularly in the fields of health, safety and the environment. 
Members, through their training and experience, can appreciate the benefits that chemical science has brought to society and can also foresee possible dangers. They therefore have a duty to refrain from one-sided arguments and they should discount and, when appropriate, counter exaggerated, illinformed or prejudiced statements. They should be prepared to advocate suitable precautions against possible harmful side-effects of science and technology and, unless constrained by statute, to bring their recommendations into the public domain. The ethical difficulties do not lie in the Members have a duty to identify the hazards and assess the risks of scientific and technological activities and processes. They must strive for the highest standards of care in their own workplaces and take an active interest in safety throughout their organisations. 
Some members work in industries or in areas of scientific activity that can be subjected to adverse publicity or can arouse hostility from pressure groups. Members are entitled to undertake any lawful scientific activity, which should be carried out within the general principles of societal responsibility outlined above. The RSC does not condone any attempt to coerce its members into refraining from lawful activity. 
Members and legislation 
Members should be aware of the general principles of law relating to health and safety, environmental protection, personal negligence, discrimination and human rights, and data protection. In addition, there is legislation relating to many specialised fields of scientific work. 
Large organisations with many scientific staff will have experts whose job it is to keep employees and other staff informed of legal requirements affecting their work. Smaller organisations may not have such experts and will rely on members to watch for relevant legislation and to ensure compliance. 
Although the prime responsibility lies with the employer in the event of a breach of the law, members should maintain a broad and up-to-date understanding of the laws, regulations and other developments in their own field. The fact that it is not a member‘s primary job to monitor legislation is not an excuse for ignorance of the law in the event of a breach. 
If members are aware that legal requirements are being overlooked, they have a duty to put their objections on record and to do all they can to put matters right. Failure to act may count as consent, connivance or neglect in connection with any offence, and could result in charges being brought against the member as an individual. 
Impact on the environment 
Members should use their knowledge and experience for the protection and improvement of the environment. 
In addition to legal obligations, members also have a duty to minimise adverse effects on the environment, to recommend and use best environmental practice, and to seek opportunities to promote sustainable development. 
As part of their obligations to their employers and to society, members should assess the environmental impact of their activities and give appropriate advice. 
News media 
The news media often deal with health and safety issues, environmental protection, and other matters related to applications of chemical science. The coverage given is not always accurate or objective. 
Members may be interviewed by reporters or representatives of newspapers and magazines, and may be asked to appear on radio or television. They should bear in mind that what they say may be taken as representing general opinion among members. 
Members who are invited to comment by the media should first ascertain the facts of the case and ensure that they have a genuine contribution to make. If not, they should decline the invitation and if possible refer the inquirer to another scientist, rather than risk giving misleading answers through lack of knowledge. 
Contributors should also consider the nature and objective of the programme or publication. If it has a reputation for running sensational news stories, there is a danger that comments may be taken out of context. Bad news attracts more attention than good, and the media may exaggerate the seriousness of an issue. Contributors may have to counter distortions without shrinking from unpleasant facts or conclusions. 
It is most important that members make it clear when they are expressing opinions, rather than stating facts. This is especially true when the opinions are not shared by all professional colleagues. 
Opinion, qualified or otherwise, should only be given following consideration of its possible consequences, particularly for other members. This does not mean that a member who believes it is in the public interest to express a particular opinion should hesitate to express it because it happens to be controversial, but it should be appreciated that strongly held personal attitudes are not always compatible with the public interest. 
The RSC‘s name must not be used to imply its endorsement of personal views under any circumstances. 
Publications, lectures and contributions to electronic media 
The highest standards of integrity are required of members submitting scientific papers for publication. The considerations which apply to broadcast and press interviews apply also to other forms of communication such as books, lectures, and contributions to electronic media. 
-always obtain written permission from the copyright holder for the reproduction of figures, photographs, charts, drawings, tables and direct quotations 
-guard against wrongful disclosure of confidential information, especially relating to current research and development work œ it is best to obtain specific written approval from the appropriate organisation or individual 
-give due acknowledgement to past scientific work and to all substantial help and advice received œ omissions and mistakes can lead to defamation actions because reputations are involved 
-obtain written permission from their employer before signing a contract with a publisher, even if the subject matter is not directly related to the employment 
RSC members and evidence 
Public committees 
Members may be called on to give evidence to governmental or parliamentary committees or other public bodies. If so, they are advised to contact the RSC for advice about procedures. 
Members should study the body‘s terms of reference and establish the capacity in which he/she will appear: as a representative of an employer, as a representative of an industry, as an independent expert, or as an interested member of the public. 
If an inquiry is to consider matters of relevance to members generally, the RSC will probably make written or oral submissions and this may involve its members. A member who expects to give evidence before an inquiry in a personal capacity, on a matter that may affect RSC members generally, should contact the RSC. The RSC will be able to offer advice and information to the member and will find it useful to be aware of the matters that are the subject of the inquiry. Endorsement by the RSC should not be implied unless obtained in advance. 
Commissions and committees may sometimes misinterpret or over-simplify scientific evidence. Witnesses should ask to see transcripts of their evidence, so that errors can be corrected before publication. 
Tribunals and committees of inquiry 
After a major accident, or other incident that has caused public concern, a tribunal or committee of inquiry may be set up. The powers of these tribunals vary, but they usually follow procedures similar to those used in the courts, except that no charges are brought. At the end of the hearing, a report is submitted. If serious criticisms, or allegations of default, negligence, or misconduct are made in the report, then legal proceedings may follow. 
Inquiries and tribunals often seek to determine whether incompetence, misjudgement or neglect on the part of professional people caused or contributed to the accident or incident. Members called to take part in any inquiry should establish the capacity in which they are being called. 
Unless called as completely independent witnesses, with no previous involvement in the events leading to the incident, members should seek personal legal advice before the hearing. This is in addition to any legal advice that their employer may provide. They should make sure that legal advice and consultation are available to them throughout the proceedings, so that evidence damaging to them may be questioned on their behalf. 
A full transcript of the proceedings is usually available before publication. If so, witnesses should exercise their right to receive a copy and challenge any misleading statement relating to the evidence. 
The RSC can advise members about their responsibilities and rights at hearings but is not able to present the cases of members called before tribunals or committees of inquiry. Therefore, members should seek to ensure that they are adequately represented. The RSC may also decide to have its own representatives present when a question of principle is raised which affects the profession as a whole. 
Members as expert witnesses 
The function of an expert witness is to assist the court in arriving at a verdict by elucidating the technical or scientific facts on which a lawsuit may depend. 
In civil cases, the British courts normally expect both parties to appoint one agreed expert witness. If the parties cannot so agree, the court may appoint an expert from an approved list. Only in exceptional cases is there a requirement for appointment of experts by both sides. The overriding duty of an expert witness in a civil case is to the court, rather than to either party. This principle also applies in cases where expert witnesses are appointed by both sides. 
In criminal cases, the British courts allow each party to call one or more expert witnesses to support its own case or to rebut evidence produced by the other side. This may result in the expert witness identifying with the interest of one side. Whereas it is clearly the duty of the expert witness to be concerned with the interests of the client, evidence must, nevertheless, be objective and strictly confined to matters on which the witness can speak with authority and from Members called as expert witnesses should familiarise themselves with court procedure and the Rules of Evidence. It is, for example, usually possible to quote from standard works of reference if these are produced, but the admissibility of this evidence, or its implications, may be challenged if the author is living and could be called. Scientific papers in journals may be quoted and produced, but the possibility of challenge is even greater. Hearsay, and conversations with third parties not present, will seldom be admitted as evidence. 
During court hearings, counsel on both sides may well attempt to lead the expert beyond the strict confines of scientific knowledge into the realms of conjecture, personal opinions or prejudices which may later be demolished and the witness's credibility thus undermined. If, during the course of proceedings, matters come to light about which the expert witness was unaware, the court should be informed about this. Failure to do so may place the expert in an untenable position. 
Evidence should be given in language understandable to everyone in court. Witnesses should, however, avoid traps set by counsel in the form of questions that demand a simple answer but to which a simple unqualified answer might be misleading. In such cases, appeals to the judge for permission to amplify or qualify the answer are seldom refused. 
All expert witnesses should aim to establish their expertise with courtesy and with the highest professional integrity. They should also appreciate that, if two parties produce their own experts, there may be disagreement in the views presented by the experts. If alternative interpretations are put forward in good faith and with skill and moderation, a court will respect the integrity of the opposing experts even if it has to accept one argument and reject the other. 
RSC members outside the United Kingdom 
The RSC acknowledges that problems may arise in applying its requirements to members who are working outside the United Kingdom. Laws and customs in various parts of the world differ. 
Nevertheless, all members of the RSC accept the same obligations on admission to the RSC. 
The By-laws of the RSC provide specific powers for expulsion and suspension of members found guilty of any criminal offence involving fraud or dishonesty or who have been committed to prison for any other criminal offence. The term ”criminal offence‘ when used in these cases [contained in By-law 18] applies to offences defined by the law of the country in which the offence took place. 
When dealing with allegations about a member‘s conduct, the RSC will take all relevant matters into account, including the laws and customs of the country in which the actions took place and which gave rise to the allegation. 
All members, wherever they are resident or employed, are required to show the same allegiance to the RSC. Equally, the RSC provides appropriate support and advice to its members worldwide, by face-to-face contact, telephone, email or via its web site. 
Royal Society of Chemistry (UK)
Region: WEOG
Country: UK
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Royal Society of Chemistry
Regulation of the profession and code of conduct
www.rsc.orgRSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
The Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) is a professional body for chemical scientists. It is a self 
regulated body that demands high standards of professionalism. Members1
 should follow a code 
of ethical conduct, and carry out their duties accordingly.
Under its Royal Charter the RSC has accountability for advancement and certification of 
competence in chemical science, and maintaining the integrity of its members.
The RSC expects all members to uphold the reputation of the RSC and its Royal Charter as well 
as the reputation of the profession. There are disciplinary regulations and procedures in place to 
maintain these high professional standards.
The profession requires advanced learning and practical skills. Members have a responsibility 
for maintaining and improving their knowledge by continuous professional development (CPD). 
CPD is an essential part of the process to award Chartered Chemist (CChem) status, and th ose 
holding CChem are expected to demonstrate maintenance in their chosen field.
The purpose of The Guidance on Professional Practice (GPP) is to help members deal with the 
demands on their working lives, and any ethical problems that may arise. A proactive attitude 
towards their professional duties will often help members solve concerns independently. 
Consultation with a senior colleague often resolves problems of this sort. The RSC is always 
willing to help its members who have doubts on the ethics of any course of action, and can offer 
guidance if necessary. 
The GPP applies to all fields of chemical science. It is aimed to complement and not conflict 
regulations that apply locally and internationally2
. It supports the RSC code of conduct, and may 
be cited in a disciplinary enquiry if a member is criticised in an adverse manner in the public 
domain.
In addition to the GPP, advice can be found on the RSC Website www.rsc.org, and when 
necessary can be given on a personal basis.
1 In this document “member” refers to Honorary Fellows, Fellows, Members, Associate Members and Affiliates.
2 The RSC acknowledges customs in various parts of the world differ. Nevertheless, all members of the RSC accept 
the same obligations on admission to the RSC. The RSC provides appropriate support and advice to its members 
worldwide, by face-to-face contact, telephone, email or via its web site.
ForewordRSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
2 Ethical considerations
3 Employee responsibilities
5 Employer responsibilities
6 Self employment and consultancy
7 Trade union membership and industrial action
8 Education
9 Serving the public interest
11 Health and safety and other legislation
12 Communication
13 Presenting legal evidence
14 Tribunals and inquiries
15 Expert witnesses
17 Code of conduct
Contents
| 1RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
The Royal Society of Chemistry is fully committed to ensuring that it operates as an 
ethical organisation. Members undertaking any activities on behalf of the RSC are 
expected to be fair and honest and act with a lawfully correct behaviour at all times.
Members:
 Should never engage in an action that conflicts with their integrity, or that of the RSC.
 Must never act in a way that could be interpreted as being discriminatory.
 Who are considering speaking out against alleged wrong-doing on the part of an employer or 
others can seek advice from the RSC, which may have a role to fulfil in such matters.
 Will find situations which may cause ethical problems can usually be solved by approaching a 
senior colleague. Members may consult the RSC for advice and support in strict confidence.
 In small organisations may feel particularly exposed. There may be no scientific colleagues from 
whom they can seek advice.
 Should fulfil their contractual responsibilities to the best of their ability.
 Have a duty to serve the public interest, and maintain and enhance the reputation of the 
profession.
 Should carry out lawful instructions from a senior colleague and maintain the right to have 
reservations put on record, or consult higher authority.
 Accept that resignation or dismissal may be the ultimate consequence of sustained protest.
Ethical considerations
2 |RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
When members enter employment their rights and obligations will be specified in a 
formal contract. All employers in the UK are obliged to produce a document containing 
the conditions of service.
There are also legally enforceable duties that arise from the relationship between the 
employer and employee. These apply even if they are not set down in writing. 
The main obligations are:
 To give loyal, willing and diligent service.
 To deal honestly with the employer’s property and facilities.
 To provide whatever skills and competencies were claimed when entering employment.
 To be willing to adopt new and improved methods of working.
 To obtain the employer’s permission, and to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest, before 
entering additional employment.
 To not attempt to obtain, or accept, any bribe or secret commission of any sort.
 To not use confidential information obtained from employment, which is detrimental to the 
employer; (both during and after employment, without time limit).
 To allow the employer to profit fully from discoveries and inventions arising from the normal 
duties of the employment (there may be a provision for an employee to derive benefit from an 
innovation of outstanding benefit to the employer).
Employee responsibilities
| 3RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
4 |RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
Members who are employers or supervisors have additional accountabilities. They 
will influence others by giving instructions and leading by example. 
In addition to meeting the ethical and contractual requirements members have an 
obligation to:
 Recognise the right of employees to exercise their discretion.
 Facilitate the professional development of all employees.
 Provide equal opportunities for all employees.
 Be accurate and fair in appraising the work of others.
 Provide accurate references on request.
 Resolve conflicts with clear procedures.
 Be strictly impartial when discussing redundancies or promotions.
 Avoid unfair or misleading statements to industrial tribunals.
 Ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements.
Employer responsibilities
| 5RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
Much of the advice in the employee and employer sections also relates to self 
employment and consultancy. These members must maintain a confidential 
relationship with clients. They must not reveal information obtained from clients to 
a third party without consent. Such information may prevent accepting work from 
additional clients. 
These members have direct contact with the public and have significant impact 
on perception.
At the outset of any work, the consultant and customer should agree on:
 A clear understanding of objectives.
 The assignment of any patent claims arising out of the consultation.
 The scope and manner of final reports and publications.
 The estimated cost or fee.
 Sufficient Professional Indemnity Insurance cover. 
 Not attempting to poach other consultants’ clients by denigrating the consultants’ reputations.
Self employment 
and consultancy
6 |RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
Membership of a trade union may bring benefits to employees. However, industrial 
action may conflict with the duties of a member to serve the public interest.
 Participation in industrial action is not unethical, but members are not obliged to take part in 
industrial action against their own wishes.
 Industrial action will almost certainly represent a breach of the employee’s contract of 
employment. 
 Some contracts of service specify that disputes which cannot be resolved by negotiation be 
referred to an arbitrator. The RSC commends this arrangement.
Trade union membership 
and industrial action
| 7RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
Members within education at any level have accountability to lay the foundations of 
scientific and professional standards. They have a responsibility to their students and 
also to the profession as a whole. The future of the profession may be shaped by their 
influence on those students. 
In addition to their other duties they should:
 Set an example to their students by demonstrating high professional and ethical standards.
 Set the highest standards of personal integrity. Attention to accuracy should be exercised in 
chemical science investigations.
 Be aware of the ethical implications. The environmental effects of chemical discovery should be a 
focus throughout a scientist’s training.
 Be responsible for the health and safety of students in laboratories and ensure that their students 
observe all relevant safe working practices. 
 Monitor any conflict of interest which may develop between responsibilities for the students and 
to the institution. 
Education
8 |RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
All members have responsibilities arising from their duty to serve the public interest, 
and should be concerned with the progress of the chemical sciences. The RSC does 
not condone any attempt to coerce its members into refraining from lawful activity.
The RSC expects members to use their professional skills to:
 Advance the welfare of society, particularly in the fields of health, safety and the environment. 
 Advocate suitable precautions against possible harmful side-effects of science and technology.
 Identify the risks of scientific activities, and take an active interest in safety throughout their 
organisations. 
 Undertake any lawful scientific activity as required even if in an area which arouses adverse 
publicity.
 Use their knowledge and experience for the protection and improvement of the environment.
Serving the public interest
| 9RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
10 |RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
Members must be aware of the general principles of law relating to health and safety, 
negligence, discrimination, data protection, and any other law relating to their field of 
scientific work. 
Members should:
 Have a duty to minimise adverse effects on Health and Safety and to recommend the use of best 
health and safety practice and give appropriate advice.
 Be aware smaller organisations will rely on members to ensure compliance of the law. 
 Maintain a broad and up-to-date understanding of the regulations and other developments in 
their own field. 
 Have a duty to put their objections on record if legal requirements are being overlooked, and to 
do all they can to put matters right. 
Health and safety 
and other legislation
| 11RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
The media often deal with health and safety and environmental protection issues. The 
coverage given is not always accurate or objective. This does not mean that a member 
who believes it is in the public interest to express a particular opinion should hesitate to 
express it because it happens to be controversial.
Members should:
 Bear in mind that what they say in the media may be taken as representing general opinion 
among all members.
 First obtain the facts of the case and ensure that they have a genuine contribution to make. 
 Consider the nature and objective of the programme or publication and make sure comments 
are not taken out of context.
 Be aware bad news generally attracts more attention than good, and the media may exaggerate 
the seriousness of an issue. 
 Make it clear when they are expressing personal opinions, rather than stating facts. This is 
especially true when the opinions are not shared by all professional colleagues. 
 Not use the RSC’s name to imply its endorsement of personal views under any circumstances.
Considerations which apply to broadcast and press interviews also apply to other forms 
of communication such as books, lectures, and contributions to electronic media. 
Authors should be aware of intellectual property laws governing copyright. 
In particular members should:
 Obtain written permission from the copyright holder for material used in any public domain.
 Guard against wrongful disclosure of confidential information, especially relating to current 
research and development work.
 Acknowledge past scientific work and recognise any substantial help and advice received. 
 Obtain written permission from their employer before signing a contract with a publisher.
 Be unbiased and honest. Refrain from all forms of plagiarism, and correct any errors which may 
arise over time.
Communication
12 |RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
Presenting legal evidence
Public Committees
Members may be called on to give evidence to governmental or parliamentary 
committees or other public bodies. If so, they are advised to contact the RSC for advice 
about procedures. 
Members should:
 Study the terms of reference, and establish the capacity in which he/she will appear.
 Consider if subjects are of relevance to all members. If so, the RSC can make written or oral 
submissions. 
 Not imply endorsement by the RSC unless obtained in advance.
 Should ask to see transcripts of evidence that they have given as a witness, so that errors can be 
corrected before publication.
| 13RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
Tribunals and inquiries
A tribunal is usually set up after an incident that causes public concern. Tribunals 
usually follow legal guidelines except no charges are brought. Following the hearing, 
a report is produced. If serious criticisms or allegations of wrong doing are made in 
the report then legal proceedings may follow. The RSC can advise members about 
their responsibilities and rights at hearings, but is not able to present the cases of 
members called before tribunals. The RSC may also decide to be present when a 
question of principle is raised which affects the profession as a whole.
Members should:
 Be aware inquiries and tribunals often determine whether incompetence contributed to an 
accident or incident. 
 Establish the capacity in which they are being called. 
 Seek personal legal advice before and during the hearing. This may be in addition to any legal 
advice provided by their employer. 
 Exercise their right to receive a copy of the transcript and challenge any misleading statement 
relating to the evidence.
14 |RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
The function of an expert witness is to assist the court in arriving at a verdict by 
explaining the technical or scientific facts on which a lawsuit may depend. In civil 
cases, courts normally expect both parties to appoint one agreed expert witness. If 
the parties cannot agree, the court may appoint an expert from an approved list. In 
criminal cases, courts allow each party to call one or more expert witnesses. 
Members should: 
 Familiarise themselves with court procedure.
 Aim to establish their expertise with courtesy and with the highest professional integrity.
 Provide evidence which is objective and restricted to matters which the witness can speak about 
with authority and avoid hearsay.
 Avoid a biased attitude which could harm the value of the evidence presented and their integrity.
 Be aware that references can be quoted, but their acceptability may be challenged if the author is 
alive.
 Inform the court about matters which they were previously unaware.
 Avoid traps set by counsel in the form of questions that demand a simple answer but to which a 
simple unqualified answer might be misleading.
Expert witnesses
| 15RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
16 |RSC | Regulation of the profession and code of conduct Regulation of the profession and code of conduct | RSC 
The Council of the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) has adopted the following code of 
conduct.
1. This Code of Conduct is applicable to all members (Honorary Fellows, Fellows, Members, 
Associate Members and Affiliates).
2. All members, having subscribed to the declaration as required under paragraphs 6 and 13 of the 
By-laws, have a duty to:
 Observe the provision of the Charter and By-laws of the RSC and any regulations 
made under them,
 Conduct themselves honourably in the practice of their profession,
 Maintain the highest standards of competence and integrity, especially in carrying 
out any statutory duties relevant to a particular appointment or area of employment,
 Have regard at all times to the public interest,
 Further the interests of and maintain the dignity and welfare of the RSC.
3. In order to fulfil their duty under this Code, members shall give due attention to any general 
guidance on professional conduct, together with advice on specific issues, and shall conform to 
any rulings on such matters that may be approved and issued from time to time by the Council 
of the RSC.
Members are reminded of the declaration signed on taking up membership of the RSC (as required 
under By-laws 6 and 13):
“I, the undersigned, do hereby declare that, while a member of the Royal Society of Chemistry, I will observe 
the provisions of the Charter and By-laws and any regulations made under them, and that I will conduct 
myself honourably in the practice of my profession and will further the interests and maintain the dignity 
and welfare of the RSC for as long as I shall continue to be a member.”
4. RSC has a disciplinary process for members that do not adhere to this code of conduct. 
http://www.rsc.org/disciplinary
Code of conduct
| 17Text approved by the Council of the Royal Society of Chemistry, October 2012
Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, 
as permitted under the UK Copyright Designs and Patents Act, 1988, this publication may not be 
reproduced, stored, or transmitted, in any form, or by any means, without the prior permission 
in writing of the publishers, or in the case of reprographic reproduction, only in accordance with 
the terms of the licences issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency in the UK, or in accordance 
with the terms of the licences issued by the appropriate reproduction rights organization 
outside the UK. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside the terms stated here should be 
sent to the Royal Society of Chemistry at the address printed on this page. 
These Regulations supersede those issued by the RSC’s Council in August 2001
Royal Society of Chemistry

Royal Society of New Zealand Code of Professional Standards and Ethics
Region: WEOG
Country: New Zealand
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Fundamental principles. This Code is based on eleven fundamental principles of ethical and professional behaviour and conduct. The fundamental principles are:
1.  Integrity and professionalism:
2.  Honesty:
3.  Compliance with the law and relevant standards:
4.  Respect for colleagues:
5.  Respect for communities:
6.  Protection of the well-being and privacy of individuals:
7.  Duty to funders and purchasers of research:
8.  Protection of the welfare of animals:
9.  Protection of the environment:
10. Continuing education and communication of knowledge:
11. Appropriate use of genetic information.
Return to top
Part 2: Principles
2.1 Integrity and professionalism
1.  A member must behave with integrity using their knowledge and skills in a professional manner so as to competently pursue their work.
2.  Consistent with rule 2.1(1), a member must—
a.  endeavour to obtain and present facts and interpretations in an objective and open manner; and
b.  strive to be fair and unbiased in all aspects of their research and in their application of their knowledge in science, technology, or the humanities; and
c.  strive to enhance the reputation of their profession; and
d.  strive not to compromise the health, safety or welfare of the community or of colleagues and others directly associated with science, technology, or the humanities; and
e.  show respect, consideration and courtesy to clients and to the public; and
f.  avoid or declare real or apparent conflicts of interest and document them beforehand whenever possible; and
g.  where appropriate, acknowledge themselves as interested parties in controversies about procedures in science, technology, or the humanities; and
h.  always observe the requirements of specific statutes and/or codes applicable to the work they are to undertake; and
i.  endeavour not to compromise the well being of society or the sustainable use of the natural environment. In instances of conflict, the welfare and the needs of the community must take precedence over responsibilities to clients, colleagues or other interests; and
j.  act in accordance with the spirit of the Treaty of Waitangi and, particularly when that work includes investigations which impinge on the New Zealand natural environment, on individual persons and communities or on customs, objects or places of special cultural significance; and
k.  not present themselves as experts outside their areas of expertise.
3.1 Honesty
1.  A member must conduct themselves honestly and with integrity at all times. This applies to dealings with clients, colleagues and the public as well as to ensuring personal integrity in the recording of data, the drawing of conclusions and in other professional actions.
2.  Consistent with rule 3.1(1), a member must—
a.  honestly represent their research goals and intentions to any potential participants in the research process; and
b.  fairly and fully represent their results without falsification or bias; and
c.  fairly record the intellectual, material and practical contributions of others to their work and results; and
d.  ensure that joint authors of publications and reports share responsibility for their contents; and
e.  endeavour to retain all types of research records for a period long enough after publication of the work to allow examination by bona fide critics (two years at a minimum) but archiving the data if possible, and, where commercial sensitivity is not an issue, making them freely available to others (see also rule 4 – respect for colleagues and rule 5 – respect for communities); and
f.  not falsify qualifications or wittingly make other untrue claims of experience; and
g.  not commit plagiarism, or condone acts of plagiarism by others; and
h.  always be scrupulously honest in the application of findings from research and in the transfer of technology to the community wherever it occurs; and
i.  unless commercial considerations indicate otherwise, do all that they can to ensure the earliest possible publication of the results of publicly-funded research; and
j.  ensure that all speculative and interpretive statements in their reports are clearly identified as such.
4.1 Compliance with the law and relevant standards
1.  A member must only claim expertise commensurate with their qualifications and fields of competence and must follow investigative and work practices which conform to recognised national and international standards.
2.  Consistent with rule 4.1(1), a member must—
a.  only represent themselves as experts in their fields of competence as defined by their formal qualifications or other demonstrable experience; and
b.  maintain their technical and general competence in their area of expertise and familiarise themselves with recent national and international advances therein; and
c.  ensure that they make appropriate disclosure of any limitations on proposed work due to insufficient resources or other factors; and
d.  strive to adhere to the requirements of relevant New Zealand legislation and regulations and all appropriate codes of work standards and ethical practice; and
e.  strive to adhere to the codes and disciplinary standards of learned societies and professional bodies of which they are members or by which they are registered; and
f.  have regard to the requirements, work practices and ethical standards of any relevant international organisation (such as the International Council for Science (ICSU)); and
g.  ensure that the highest standard prevails whenever there is any discrepancy or conflict in standards.
5.1 Respect for colleagues
1.  A member must support ethical behaviour and high professional standards in their colleagues and must treat such colleagues with integrity and honesty.
2.  Consistent with rule 5.1(1), a member must—
a.  review the work of colleagues without bias and treat all information gained in such activity as privileged and confidential; and
b.  appropriately acknowledge the work and contributions of colleagues; and
c.  avoid falsely, vexatiously or maliciously attempting to impugn the reputations of colleagues or otherwise compromising or denigrating them in order to achieve commercial, professional or personal advantages; and
d.  support the career development of colleagues by providing honest, unbiased comment on their career prospects, on the conduct of their work or on their proposals, manuscripts and papers; and
e.  encourage and support the development of junior colleagues; and
f.  be aware that in the event of a challenge to a member over his or her past ethical conduct the retention of and ability to produce all the appropriate records may prove to be crucial.
6.1 Respect for communities
1.  A member must endeavour to make the results of their work as widely available to the public as possible and to present those results in an honest, straightforward and unbiased manner.
2.  Consistent with rule 6.1(1), a member must—
a.  endeavour to communicate the results of their work to the wider community without distortion arising from misleading or unjustified simplification or extrapolation; and
b.  endeavour to ensure that all public statements are correct and supported by competent research and/or scholarship; and
c.  ensure that all speculative and interpretative statements are identified as such; and
d.  accept that researchers working on different approaches to a problem may reach different but supportable conclusions within the context of their own research; and
e.  acknowledge that in some instances and in some areas of research their own values may impinge on the way they approach a problem and that different values and paradigms may also have validity; and
f.  avoid attempting to influence public policy in situations where the available evidence is contradictory or inconclusive without making the state of that evidence clear; and
g.  support the publication and dissemination of all competent research even when the conclusions drawn by the authors are contrary to a member’s own opinions or to the currently accepted consensus.
7.1 Protection of the wellbeing and privacy of individuals
1.  A member must ensure that the involvement of people as participants in any proposed research is fully justified by first establishing that there will be potential significant benefits from the research and that these benefits will greatly outweigh any potential harm which may be experienced by the participants.
2.  The interests, safety, well being and dignity of participants must be of paramount concern to a member at all times. The following underlying principles must therefore all be observed in the planning and in the conduct of research:
a.  Informed and voluntary consent:
b.  Respect for privacy and confidentiality:
c.  Minimisation of harm to participants:
d.  Avoidance of unnecessary deception:
e.  Respect for property rights:
f.  Sensitivity to the age, gender, culture, religion and social class of participants.
3.  Research involving human participants must not commence until after it has been approved by an appropriate ethics committee accredited or approved to conduct ethics review. Information on accredited ethics committees and guidelines on ethics in health research in New Zealand can be obtained from the Health Research Council of New Zealand (www.hrc.govt.nz).
4.  A researcher should also comply with any code of ethics developed by their professional associations (e.g. the New Zealand Psychological Society, the Association of Social Science Researchers, the New Zealand Association for Research in Education), and with the requirements of other external bodies (e.g. approval by the Research Access Committee operated by the Department of Child Youth and Family).
5.  A member should be aware that most academic journals require research to have been approved by an ethics committee before it will be published.
6.  Any vested interest in a trial should be disclosed to the institution, the body granting approval, and to participants. Trials involving human participants may have an overseeing committee which is independent of those who may have a vested interest in the outcomes of a trial.
7.  Consistent with rules 7.1(1)–(6), a member must—
a.  ensure that their research with human participants adheres to the requirements of all relevant legislation, these include, the New Zealand Bill of Rights 1990; the New Zealand Public Health and Disability Act 2000; the Code of Health and Disability Consumers’ Rights1996; Privacy Act 1993; the Health Information Privacy Code 1994; the Injury Prevention, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2001; and the Health Research Council Act 1990; and
b.  adhere to the Codes of Ethics and Conduct covering research with human participants which are in place in their institutions as well as with the codes of ethics developed by their professional associations; and
c.  ensure that the information provided to gain consent is adequate and appropriate and that the consent gained is voluntary. A member should be aware that gaining informed and voluntary consent from minors and from those of diminished responsibility is not straightforward and that they should be careful to follow the requirements of any relevant code of ethics; and
d.  ensure that research is stopped and the matter referred to the appropriate authority should any ethical issue that was not envisaged when the research was planned unexpectedly arise and also ensure that the research does not restart until the authority’s approval to do so has been obtained; and
e.  endeavour to ensure that individuals who choose not to participate in a project are not discriminated against by their community or by the researchers and others involved; and
f.  ensure the identity of participants is not disclosed unless they consent otherwise; and
g.  ensure confidentiality of information at all stages of the project unless participants choose otherwise; and
h.  ensure that any overseeing committee has access to trial data as they accumulate so that the committee can assess whether the trial should proceed or be discontinued; and
i.  endeavour to ensure that all research is conducted in accordance with the principles of the Treaty of Waitangi by paying proper regard to the rights of individuals and communities in matters of protection, participation and partnership; and
j.  ensure that research they conduct in other countries conforms to the same ethical standards as those pertaining in New Zealand, while also endeavouring to follow local ethical requirements and codes which are compatible with New Zealand standards; and
k.  ensure that there are sufficient protections for participants who may suffer injury as a result of participation in research; in this context, the application of the accident compensation legislation should be considered, or where relevant, appropriate insurance or indemnity cover should be arranged; and
l.  ensure that any vested interest which either the institution, the member personally, or any other member, has in a research project, particularly of a fiduciary kind, is disclosed to the institution, the body granting approval, and to participants.
8.1 Duty to the funders and purchasers of research
1.  A member involved in research, developments, testing or other operations for employers, funding agencies or other paying clients must maintain the high standards expected of all persons involved in science, technology, and the humanities.
2.  When a member undertakes work for employers or other purchasers the interests of these clients normally take priority over other interests but always within the limits imposed by law, by this Code, by accepted ethical standards and by the public interest.
3.  Consistent with rules 8.1(1) and (2), a member must—
a.  exercise initiative, skill and judgement for the benefit of an employer or client; and
b.  endeavour to ensure that clients are aware of the ethical and legal obligations of the person whose services they are purchasing; and
c.  ensure that employers or clients are aware of the general place that publication of research findings plays in the world of science, technology, or the humanities; and
d.  encourage employers and other clients to permit public disclosure of their results unless there are legitimate and lawful reasons for confidentiality but, nevertheless, always respecting that confidentiality when it is legitimately required by the employer or client; and
e.  identify and respect any intellectual property employed within, or arising from, research or other work undertaken for an employer or client; and
f.  accept personal responsibility for all research or associated work undertaken by themselves or under their supervision; and
g.  not accept anything of substantial value from any third party by way of gratuity or personal advantage, nor promise to give anything of such value to any third party; and
h.  within appropriate time-frames, make available to funding agencies an appropriate report on each funded project; and
i.  oppose any manipulation of results to meet the perceived needs or requirements of employers, funding agencies, the media or other clients and interested parties whether this be attempted before or after the relevant data have been obtained; and
j.  not undertake any work which they know will be in conflict with the standards and ethical requirements of this Code.
9.1 Protection of the welfare of animals
1.  A member who is involved in experiments, procedures or tests involving sentient animals must respect and promote the welfare of those animals.
2.  This duty is expressed in the manner in which the animals are treated. Although it is generally accepted that research involving animals contributes to the advancement of knowledge, to improvements in the health and well being of animals as well as humans and in the maintenance of balance and sustainability in ecosystems, any experimental undertaking involving animals, no matter how laudable, must always be ethically acceptable and this means that—
a.  if there are ways of undertaking an investigation or of achieving the results sought without the use of animals these possibilities must be investigated and used unless there are sound reasons to the contrary; and
b.  any harm or distress which will be inflicted on an animal requires full justification and must be clearly outweighed by the realistic benefits likely to accrue from an experiment; and
c.  any harm or distress inflicted on an animal must be minimised as much as possible.
3.  Consistent with rules 9.1(1) and (2), a member must—
a.  first consider alternative methods, not involving animals, of meeting the research, teaching or testing requirements of any investigation; and
b.  undertake their research, teaching or testing in accordance with all institutional and legal requirements and also follow formal published guidelines (e.g. the New Zealand Code of Recommendations and Minimum Standards for the Care and Use of Animals for Scientific Purposes); and
c.  apply and obtain ethical approval for their work from an appropriate ethical committee and follow the advice and requirements of that committee; and
d.  ensure that the ethical committee considers the need for an overseeing person or committee for each trial and that the committee has ongoing access to experimental data and assesses whether or not a trial should continue; and
e.  endeavour to ensure that their work always adheres to the highest possible standards for the humane treatment of animals such that—
i.  adequate steps are taken to ensure that animals do not suffer unnecessary pain or distress at any time; and
ii. animals are kept under the supervision of an experienced investigator and are housed, fed and cared for to safeguard their health and comfort; and
iii.    all animals used in research are legally acquired, retained and used; and
f.  give consideration to the appropriateness of the animal species proposed for any investigation, to the possibility of using less-sentient or non-sentient animals, and to the minimum number needed to meet the required scientific and/or statistical standards; and
g.  use appropriate and approved methods of anaesthesia, analgesia and tranquillisation on animals subjected to invasive procedures; and
h.  seek to make those using animals in research, teaching and testing aware of the need to practise and encourage the highest standards of animal care and welfare; and
i.  be aware that the health and stress levels in animals as well as the level of human interaction with them need to be considered in designing research protocols; and
j.  endeavour to foster an awareness of the importance of animal welfare within the scientific, technological, or humanities professions and within the wider community.
10.1 Protection of the environment
1.  A member must be aware of the need for the sustainable management of the planet’s resources and must seek to minimise any unnecessary adverse environmental impacts on present and/or future generations consequent upon their investigations or upon the applications of their technology. In considering these environmental implications, a member must draw the attention of both decision makers and those to be affected to any environmental impacts of the proposed work and to the perceived immediate and potential consequences which may follow.
2.  Sustainable management is defined as meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of succeeding generations to meet the needs of the future.
3.  Consistent with rules 10.1(1) and (2), a member must—
a.  be committed to the efficient use of resources; and
b.  minimise the generation of waste and, where applicable, encourage the environmentally sound re-use, recycling and disposal of waste; and
c.  seek to observe the principles and practices of sustainable management and the needs of future generations both local and international; and
d.  strive to identify the impacts of their work on the environment and on people and communities, endeavour to assess and report on such impacts and seek to avoid or mitigate any adverse effects; and (e) strive to encourage the avoidance or the minimisation of any adverse effects on the environment arising from the application of science, technology, or the humanities; and
e.  pay regard to international resource agreements and protocols and the obligations they may impose on the work of people involved in science, technology, or the humanities; and
f.  encourage an awareness of environmental issues within the science, technology, or humanities professions and among the wider public; and
g.  be aware of their obligations under the Treaty of Waitangi and the need to protect areas and places of cultural significance.
11.1 Continuing education and communication of knowledge
1.  A member is expected to continue the development of their skills and knowledge and, when and where appropriate, to communicate their knowledge to the public.
2.  A member in educational and communications settings, whether as a teacher in a formal classroom, as a supervisor of student work, as a mentor to junior colleagues or in dealing more generally with the wider community, must at all times present themselves and their information in an ethical and responsible manner.
3.  The aims of a member must be the advancement of awareness, knowledge and understanding in science, technology, or the humanities. This includes the fostering of informed critical responses to issues relating to science, technology, or the humanities.
12.1 Appropriate use of genetic information
Use and storage of genetic information
1.  The rapid progress in the understanding of the genetic code and in the techniques of using the information contained therein imply that the ethical questions surrounding molecular genetics apply particularly to the guardianship of genetic information, from whatever source, and to the use to which such information is put, rather than to the particular process or technique which is to be applied in its use. The ability to manipulate organisms, as in the processes of “genetic engineering” of bacteria and plants, or in areas of animal and human reproduction such as “cloning” or “assisted fertilisation”, bring these wider ethical matters to the fore.
2.  Given that deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) can be extracted from most bodily tissues and can be stored almost indefinitely the collection and storage of DNA, and the data extracted from it by experimentation, need special consideration. Additionally, the methods of disposal of DNA may raise cultural difficulties among some ethnic and/or religious communities. The following comments highlight a number of the consequential issues that require the specific attention of researchers:
a.  Since DNA is a “blueprint” it can be used for purposes other than those for which original consent was given. This is normally unacceptable and specific consent should be sought for all applications:
b.  With the exception of monozygotic twins, DNA is unique to an individual and cannot be made truly unidentifiable:
c.  Inadvertent, and often unwelcome, information may unintentionally arise from genetic research – paternity/non-paternity, unusual family relationships – and such a possibility needs to be anticipated:
d.  Genes and matters of heredity carry with them cultural, spiritual and emotional dimensions. These may give rise to unforeseen difficulties during research or similar investigations if researchers are not cognisant of such dimensions or choose to disregard them:
e.  Ethical considerations apply, at least in part, to all living species and not just to human beings.
3.  The arguments and debate about “genetic engineering” are often not about genetic modification per se but about whether, in any particular circumstance, the projected outcome and the consequences of any side effects are ethically and morally acceptable. In this respect there are strong similarities with environmental issues. In other words, the member involved in genetic modification for a specific purpose must always consider, in a broad context, other possible outcomes.
4.  Consistent with rules 12.1(1)-(3), a member must—
a.  follow with special care and diligence the general responsibilities outlined earlier in this Code to act honestly with integrity and professionalism; and
b.  follow all statutes and codes of practice which apply to the acquisition, the manipulation and the use of genetic information; and
c.  take particular care to secure and appropriately store all genetic information which they acquire in the course of their work; and
d.  note that although DNA can readily be used for purposes other than those for which consent had been given such a course is ethically unacceptable and that specific consents must be sought and obtained for each and every application of the material; and
e.  be aware that since “germline” gene therapy is generally regarded as being unethical because the genetic effects of such therapy are transmitted to subsequent generations, researchers contemplating any experiments of this kind must be especially careful to gain all necessary consents and to consult widely before commencement; and
f.  be always aware that any research into the genome of any indigenous species needs special consideration in New Zealand because of Treaty of Waitangi issues.
5.  Because “genetic engineering” is the current expression in the public domain signifying all aspects of genetic modification an additional statement on responsibilities is included for the guidance of those working with these techniques. This will also assure the public that the Society is aware of the need to ensure that its members act professionally and ethically in all areas of genetic research and development.
6.  The power to genetically modify living organisms lies alongside the power to harness the energy of the atom in placing a special responsibility on those who have the knowledge and skills to do so. It is essential that all members keep firmly in mind the general requirements of this Code of Ethics and that they do nothing that could potentially be detrimental to the community or harmful to the environment.
Operations involving genetic modification
7.  Consistent with rules 12.1(1)-(6), a member must—
a.  follow the spirit of this Code in striving to ensure that their actions have no detrimental effects on the welfare of humankind; and
b.  before starting their work apply for and gain all necessary approvals from appropriate Government Agencies such as the Environmental Risk Management Authority and national and local Ethics Committees; and
c.  undertake their activities in accordance with all legislative and institutional requirements and follow all specific codes and guidelines appropriate to their investigations; and
d.  keep abreast of on-going research and developments in genetic modification so that they are able, where possible, to select approaches and techniques which contribute to containment and the minimisation of residual risks; and
e.  acknowledge and understand that the public debate about genetic modification has a wide compass and includes ethical, moral and religious dimensions and that Maori concerns about the effect of genetic changes on belief systems, and on the possible exploitation of indigenous knowledge and indigenous flora and fauna, add a further aspect, through the Treaty of Waitangi, to the issues to be considered in New Zealand.
Sabic
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Saudi Arabia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

CODE    OF ETHICS
Performance with Integrity
August 1, 2013
Our Commitment
1.  Read and Understand the Code of Ethics:
    Our Code of Ethics applies to all employees, directors, officers and third parties representing Saudi Basic Industries Corporation and its wholly owned affiliates ("SABIC" or the "Company").
    Gain a solid understanding of the policies in our Code of Ethics.
    Learn the details of the Code policies that are relevant to your specific job, as well as local policies and procedures that support the Code policies.
    Complete the compliance training assigned to you in a timely manner.
2.  Comply with the Code of Ethics (both the letter and spirit) in everything you do:
    Lead by example – create and maintain a culture of compliance and personally lead compliance efforts.
    Consider compliance performance when hiring, evaluating and rewarding employees.
    Build an infrastructure to prevent, detect and respond to compliance issues.
    Identify business compliance risks and build processes to prevent/manage those risks.
    Participate in periodic compliance reviews.
    Promptly raise and address compliance concerns that arise.
    Consult with Company legal counsel when requested to cooperate in any disclosures to law enforcement authorities and regulators.
3.  Report compliance concerns promptly:
    Speak up - the sooner concerns are addressed the better.    
    Understand the many channels available for reporting compliance concerns.
    Cooperate in investigations into compliance concerns or violations.
    Do not take any retaliatory actions against any person for reporting a concern.
OUR GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
Competition Laws (Antitrust)
Our Policy
Competition laws, sometimes also known as antitrust laws, affect every aspect of doing business in today's regional and global markets. These laws are complex, global in reach, and may result in different outcomes depending on the particular situation. Our policy is to comply with competition laws in everything that we do, to be knowledgeable enough to proactively avoid any violation of competition laws, and to seek and follow the guidance of Company legal counsel to ensure compliance.
Remember that non-compliance with competition laws can severely harm our business interests and reputation. It can expose the Company to large fines imposed by the relevant authorities, as well as claims from our customers and suppliers. It can also expose individual employees to personal liability, including potential criminal sanctions.
Our Responsibility
The discussion below describes some of the key requirements of competition laws. Every person who conducts business for SABIC is responsible for having an understanding of how competition laws apply to his or her activities, and for seeking specific assistance from Company legal  counsel whenever necessary.
All employees must:
UNDERSTAND the application of competition laws to what we do every day. For example, competition laws:
   Prohibit agreements or understandings between competitors that undermine competition. All business planning and decision-making must be carried out independently, in view of the needs of our business, and without communication or coordination with competitors. Extra care should be taken with activities where competitors are present, such as  industry shows, trade associations and standard-setting bodies. The following topics (and related data) should not be discussed or shared with competitors:
    Prices;
    Bids;
    Sales territories, allocation of customers or product lines;
    Terms or conditions of sale;
    Production capacity/output or sales volume;
    Costs, profits or profit margins;
    Market share;
    Product or service offerings; and
    Distribution methods.
Prior to undertaking any activity with Industry Groups involving the aggregation of Industry data, consult with Company legal counsel to ensure compliance with applicable Competition Laws.
   Regulate the behavior of companies acting by themselves or with customers. It is possible to violate competition laws through unilateral action or through understandings with customers. For example:
    Companies with a dominant position in a given product or market segment are not permitted to leverage that position to increase sales of other products.
    In certain countries, such as the U.S., competition laws generally require that our customers who compete with each other be given the same price and terms when buying the same product at or near the same time.
    There may be limits on our ability to impose certain restrictions on the resale of our products by customers, or to influence the price or terms of resale of our products.
   Govern mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures. Competition laws also require many proposed business combinations and joint ventures to be reviewed by government agencies before completion, to ensure that they will not substantially reduce competition. These reviews often focus on internal documents to determine the objectives of the companies involved. Our business plans, market analyses and business development proposals should always reflect our desire to grow by serving new market segments and finding new ways to serve our customers, not by seeking to reduce competition. Joint venture activities and communications should be limited to accomplishing the approved objectives of the venture.
BUILD competition law compliance into our business procedures. Every process that touches customers, suppliers or competitors should be designed in a way that complies with competition laws. We must adhere to SABIC’s guidelines regarding implementing price increases, contacts with competitors, obtaining and handling competitive information, and participating in trade and professional associations. In designing any new commercial process, involve Company legal counsel early.
REPORT any apparent non-compliance with competition laws, whether by an employee or contractor, or by a competitor's employee, to Company legal counsel immediately. If a competitor approaches you to propose an improper agreement, actively decline to take part, breaking off communications altogether, if necessary, and promptly report the approach verbally to Company legal counsel.
CONSULT with Company legal counsel whenever you have a question or concern or are unsure about the application of competition laws to your activities. Keep up-to-date through online and face-to-face training opportunities in this area.
Concerns to Look Out For
ANY APPROACH BY A COMPETITOR seeking to enter into an agreement or understanding regarding pricing, terms of sale, bids, common customers or when, where or how we sell our products or compete with each other.
ANY COMMUNICATION WITH A COMPETITOR relating to the above topics, or seeking to obtain or share information on topics relating to competition, such as our distribution methods, manufacturing capacity/output, sources or costs of inputs or product development plans.
IMPROPER CONTACTS OR ACTIVITIES AMONG COMPETITORS while they are participating in trade or professional organizations or standard-setting bodies.
ANY REQUEST FROM A CUSTOMER OR SUPPLIER to enter into an exclusive arrangement that could have an adverse effect on their, or our, competitors.
ATTEMPTS TO LEVERAGE STRENGTH in one product or market segment to gain share in another, such as requiring a customer to buy one product in order to have access to a second product.
ANY REQUIREMENT THAT A CUSTOMER COMMIT TO PURCHASE PRODUCT in order to
receive a technology license.
SELECTIVE DISCOUNTS THAT RESULT IN DIFFERENT PRICING to customers who compete with each other, especially when SABIC has a strong market position.
LOYALTY INDUCING DISCOUNTS, under which the customer gets a larger discount if it purchases other or more products over a considerable period.
A RESTRICTION ON A CUSTOMER’S CHOICES for reselling SABIC's products.
CARELESSLY WRITTEN DOCUMENTS that create a misimpression of our current competitive situation or our future plans.
Questions & Answers
Q.  I just notified a major customer about an important new product that we are about to commercialize. He wants me to agree not to sell the new material to his competitors for the first five years after launch. He says he'll agree to buy all we can produce, so it won't hurt us. Can I agree to this exclusive?
A.  No. In general, we cannot agree with a customer to deny a new product to its competitors. Under certain circumstances (for example, when a customer materially assists in the development of the new product), the customer can be given a limited exclusive period. Consult with Company legal counsel to determine when, and for how long, such exclusivity can be granted.
Q.  I'm on a committee that helps to set physical standards for automotive materials. A rubber producer is trying to get a material approved for use in instrument panels in place of thermoplastics. The rubber material meets all of the functional requirements for the application. A committee member who works for another plastics manufacturer wants to add a non-functional requirement to the standard that the rubber material cannot meet. This would have the effect of keeping the rubber material out of our market. Can I agree?
A.  No. Industry groups and standard-setting bodies may not impose non-functional standards merely to restrict the entry of new products into competition.
Q.  A customer just e-mailed me our competitor's latest bid, including the pricing the competitor is offering for eight different grades that compete directly with our products. The cover note said "Can you beat this?" I think I can, but I'm worried that I've received improper information about my competitor. What should I do?
A.  Relax. Under most circumstances, it is perfectly acceptable to receive competitive information from a customer. In this case, the customer is sharing the information in order to promote competition, not restrict it. Consult with Company legal counsel for information about how to document and handle the customer's e-mail, but there should be no problem with using the information to put together a competing bid.
International Trade Controls
Our Policy
International trade control (ITC) laws – which exist in most of the countries where we operate -- regulate the transmission of goods, services and technology across national borders. ITCs include customer rules for import, embargoes prohibiting trade with certain countries, trade remedies such as antidumping and countervailing duties designed to offset unfair trade practices, and export restrictions around items controlled for national security reasons (e.g., military use).
ITC laws apply to many aspects of SABIC’s operations, not just shipping products. Exchanges of information and data, irrespective of the method (e.g., telephone, e-conferencing, e-mail, etc.), can be subject to trade controls. Failure to comply with ITC laws can have serious reputational and financial consequences for SABIC.
Our Responsibility
FOLLOW OUR ITC PROCEDURES, designed to ensure compliance with regulations of all countries in which we operate.
UNDERSTAND THE TRAINING AND COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS for which you are
responsible in your job. These may include:
    Ensuring that SABIC (or its agent) provides accurate and complete export and import information to the appropriate government authorities.
    Ensuring that SABIC provides accurate and complete data to government authorities in the event of an antidumping or countervailing duty case within the timeframe required.
    Prior to export, checking product/technology export classifications to determine whether special authorization is required.
    Reviewing and clearing applicable export and import restrictions and license requirements on technology prior to filing patents.
    Working with suppliers to ensure that the proper export licenses and controls are in place to allow SABIC to access export-controlled products and technologies.
    Understanding and complying with export laws that may prevent you from sharing certain technology with others - potentially including SABIC colleagues at home and abroad. Export laws of another country may apply to your sharing of technology even if you are in a country that does not prohibit such export.
    Screening transactions (including all customers and suppliers) for restrictions on certain sanctioned countries, persons and prohibited end uses.
    Understanding and complying with restrictions that may apply to applications for military or munitions use, including technical data associated with those applications.
    Understanding and strictly following all INCO (International contract) terms that often control responsibility for export and import compliance.
    Complying with all applicable record retention requirements.
CONSULT COMPANY LEGAL COUNSEL if you receive any request to comply with any restrictive trade practice or boycott; these may be prohibited or penalized under applicable national and international laws, or may be subject to certain government reporting requirements.
Concerns to Look Out For
If you encounter any of the following areas of concern, contact Company legal counsel immediately to help you assess the facts.
ANY FACTS OR “RED FLAGS” that suggest a customer or supplier may be attempting to evade ITC laws, including reluctant or unsatisfactory answers by a customer to questions about end use, end user, delivery dates or delivery locations.
INVOLVEMENT OR CONNECTIONS of parties or activities with the development of biological, chemical or nuclear weapons, or ballistic missiles.
TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING AN EMBARGOED COUNTRY, A CITIZEN OR
REPRESENTATIVE of an embargoed country or an individual or entity subject to government sanction. Given SABIC’s global organization, there may be potential conflicts between the laws of countries where we operate. Contact Company legal counsel for guidance.
DISCREPANCIES ON IMPORTED GOODS INVOICES where the price shown does not reflect the full value, the description of the goods is not complete or the country of origin is not correctly identified.
IMPROPER IMPORT PROCEDURES – e.g., an import tariff classification that does not describe the imported goods accurately or entry of goods under a preferential duty program (GSP, NAFTA, etc.) without support that demonstrates compliance with the program’s requirements.
Questions & Answers
Q:  A U.S. customer wants us to develop a material to meet the specific requirements for a defense-related military application. The customer provides some application information that is labeled “subject to export control laws”. Can you forward this information to a product developer in India so he/she can start work on material development?
A:  No. The development of material for defense-related applications is subject to stringent export control laws. Before any work can proceed, you must first review the specific facts with Company legal counsel. In addition, special provisions may be necessary for receiving or transmitting customer data that is subject to export control. Do not transmit the information to anyone or store it on any open server without consulting with Company legal counsel.
Q:  You receive a letter of credit from a customer in another country that requires a certificate to the effect that our products are not produced in certain countries or that the carrying vessel is prohibited from entering certain ports. Is it okay to just provide the certificate?
A:  No. “Anti-boycott laws” that prohibit compliance with such boycott requests apply to many of our operations. You should immediately report this request to Company legal counsel and receive instructions on how to proceed.
Q:  You are a technologist in Japan working with technical data that is export-controlled in Japan and requires a license to be exported to China. You would like to get input about this data from a colleague who is a Japanese citizen currently traveling in China. Is a license required to call her or send her an e-mail for input on the data?
A:  Yes. The disclosure of the export-controlled data by telephone or e-mail to a Japanese citizen while she is located in China would be considered an export, and would require a license.
Anti-Corruption
Our Policy
Corruption and bribery are illegal everywhere in the world and can impede economic growth and stability. SABIC is committed to ensuring that all of its business dealings – in both the public and private sectors – are based on lawful, ethical and fair practices.
SABIC prohibits giving, receiving or assisting with any form of bribery, including facilitation payments. All business gifts and hospitality must be exchanged in an open and honest manner that does not create an improper business advantage. These restrictions also apply to the actions of third parties -- such as contractors, consultants, and agents -- taken on our behalf or for our benefit.
These standards are intended to protect SABIC and avoid exposing SABIC and its employees to reputational, financial and other penalties, including imprisonment.
Our Responsibility
UNDERSTAND WHAT CONSTITUTES A BRIBE. A “bribe” is an offer, authorization, gift or promise to give anything of value to another person for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an improper business advantage. Bribes can include gifts, cash or cash equivalents, hospitality, jobs, internships, and political and charitable contributions that benefit the person being bribed.
DO NOT BRIBE or allow anyone acting on behalf of SABIC to bribe.
DO NOT ACCEPT A BRIBE, or allow anyone acting on behalf of SABIC to accept a bribe.
DO NOT ACCEPT anything of value that could influence your actions in a manner that gives an unfair advantage to a supplier, customer or other third party.
DO NOT GIVE OR AUTHORIZE FACILITATION PAYMENTS – i.e., payments, such as cash, cigarettes, meals, beverages, etc., made to expedite or facilitate the performance by a government official of a routine service to which you are normally entitled.
READ, UNDERSTAND AND FOLLOW the SABIC Anti-Bribery Guidelines and the SABIC Business Gifts and Hospitality Guidelines.
DO NOT OFFER ANY GIFT OR HOSPITALITY TO A GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL without
advance written authorization as required by the SABIC Anti-Bribery Guidelines.
TAKE AFFIRMATIVE STEPS to ensure that all third parties representing or working on behalf of the Company, including contractors, consultants and agents, act in a manner consistent with this Policy.
COMPLY WITH ALL RECORD-KEEPING REQUIREMENTS and financial controls (including expense reports) to enable the Company to demonstrate compliance with anti-bribery laws.
UNDERSTAND THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A BRIBE AND ACCEPTABLE BUSINESS
GIFTS/HOSPITALITY. Bribery should not be confused with reasonable and modest expenditures for gifts, business entertainment and customer travel and living expenses directly related to the
 promotion of products or services or the execution of a contract, subject to the limitations and approval requirements of the SABIC Anti-Bribery Guidelines and SABIC Business Gifts and Hospitality Guidelines.
UNDERSTAND THE LAW for giving and receiving gifts and hospitality in the public and private sectors wherever you are doing business and seek assistance from Company legal counsel if you are uncertain about applicable laws and regulations.
LOOK FOR RED FLAGS and bring all concerns to the attention of Company legal counsel.
Concerns To Look Out For
ATTEMPTS BY OTHERS TO BRIBE EMPLOYEES or persons working on behalf of the Company.
REQUESTS FOR MONEY, HOSPITALITY OR OTHER FORM OF BRIBES.
GIFTS GIVEN OR PAYMENTS MADE TO GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, including payments for:
(a) travel-related expenses, including per diems; (b) fees for services such as speakers, advisors or consultants; or (c) political contributions.
A GIFT OR HOSPITALITY that exceeds nominal value and/or is in excess of amounts permitted under the SABIC Business Gifts and Hospitality Guidelines.
REQUESTS FOR EXPEDITING FEES OR FACILITATION PAYMENTS.
UNUSUAL OR LARGE CHARGES, such as for gifts, gratuities or incidentals on a supplier invoice.
A REQUEST BY A THIRD PARTY, including customers, to hire a particular person or firm.
ANY SUGGESTION BY A THIRD PARTY that a gift, sponsorship or charitable contribution be made to a particular organization.
A REQUEST THAT A COMMISSION OR PAYMENT be made in a third country or to a company that is not party of the transaction.
BEING TOLD “NOT TO ASK” about a charge, invoice, or other transaction details.
Questions & Answers
Q: You work in Procurement and a supplier is organizing a customer event at an exclusive golf resort and invites you and your spouse to attend expense free. The business meeting will be 1 ½ days and the entire event will last three days. May you accept the invitation?
A:  No. The hospitality offered by the supplier is excessive and violates the SABIC Business Gifts and Hospitality Guidelines, particularly since you may be in a position to award business to the supplier. You should discuss with Company legal counsel whether you could attend (without your spouse) under the condition that SABIC pays for your accommodation and hospitality, or whether you could attend the business portion of the event only.
Q.  May you ask a potential supplier to contribute to a charitable foundation where you are a board member?
A:  No. Even if this was not your intent, your request for the contribution could be perceived as being made in exchange for giving the potential supplier an unfair advantage in our supplier selection process.
Q: You are a SABIC employee and have been working on an issue at a non-wholly owned  SABIC Affiliate. You have worked very hard and the Affiliate President would like to recognize you for your contribution by giving you an expensive crystal bowl. May you accept the bowl?
A:  Probably not, given its value. A non-wholly owned Affiliate is considered a third party and not part of SABIC. Therefore, a gift from its President must be treated the same as a gift from any third party. You would need to check the SABIC Business Gifts and Hospitality Guidelines to determine if the gift may be accepted and, if so, what approvals you would need prior to accepting the gift.
Q: You have been working hard to secure a lucrative contract for SABIC from a new customer. A week before the customer announces its award decision, a third party approaches you and explains that he has a “special arrangement” with the customer’s procurement manager and asks if SABIC would like his assistance. Should you accept his offer?
A:  No. The offer indicates that the third party may be willing to offer a bribe or otherwise provide SABIC with an unfair business advantage. You should consult Company legal counsel on how best to proceed.
Product Risk Management
Our Policy
We are committed to providing high-quality products that meet our customers’ needs and expectations. Any real or potential risks associated with our products – even if they arise only after our products have been incorporated into our customers’ applications – have the potential to damage our reputation, disappoint our customers, and result in liability for the Company. As responsible employees, we have a duty to recognize, reduce and report risks associated with our products and their use by our customers.
Our Responsibility
UNDERSTAND OUR ROLE – we are experts in our products, but not in our customers’ applications and end-use environments. We provide information to our customers to assist them in making material selections and design choices – we do not make suitability decisions for them.
LEARN TO IDENTIFY AND EVALUATE PRODUCT AND APPLICATION RISK FACTORS so you
can develop confidence in the performance of our product in the target application.
USE OUR STANDARD SALES AGREEMENTS, STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF
SALE AND STANDARD DISCLAIMERS for every sale in accordance with the relevant local contracting instructions and do not modify them or accept alternative terms and conditions without prior approval from Company legal counsel.
ENSURE that the product information you provide or make available to customers or others -- including online information -- is current, accurate and complete. Promptly report any inaccuracies to the Business Unit leaders responsible for managing the relevant product(s).
LEARN HOW TO COMMUNICATE about our products (both orally and in writing) in a way that is clear, complete and accurate. Stick to the facts; avoid speculation and opinion.
CLEARLY DEFINE PRODUCT LIABILITY RESPONSIBILITIES when entering into licensing or marketing agreements with other companies.
CONSULT WITH COMPANY LEGAL COUNSEL if you see a product “red flag” (e.g., issues relating to potential for personal injury, litigation, product recall) or if you have any product risk concerns or questions.
Concerns to Look Out For
POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OR INACCURACIES in internal technical data or other product information.
LITIGATION OR POTENTIAL LITIGATION (even if we are not a party) that involves our products or our customers’ applications.
CUSTOMERS WHO ASK US TO SELECT the design, material, toolmaker, molder, etc. for their application.
REQUESTS FROM CUSTOMERS TO “PARTNER” with them in developing their product or for “guarantees” or enhanced warranties of product performance or other assurances that our product will “work” or is “suitable” in their applications or that our product or the product they make using our product complies with certain rules or regulations.
UNSOPHISTICATED CUSTOMERS with little or no technical expertise in developing new products and/or who lack a coherent strategy for adequate design, end-use testing, processing and regulatory compliance.
REQUESTS FROM CUSTOMERS to develop end-use protocols or conduct general failure analysis for their products.
USE OF OUR PRODUCTS IN APPLICATIONS THAT COULD CAUSE SUBSTANTIAL HARM if
they were to fail or in applications that raise human rights concerns (e.g., land mines).
COMMUNICATIONS FROM CUSTOMERS suggesting that we are in some way responsible for their product issues.
Questions & Answers
Q:  Your customer tells you it came to SABIC because it knows that we are “the best in the business” and it “trusts” our plastics expertise. Consequently, the customer wants you to decide which resin “would be best” for its new application. The customer says it will buy large volumes of whatever resin you choose. Should you choose the resin for your customer?
A: No. We do not select resins for our customers. Our responsibility is to help the customer understand the performance characteristics of our materials. It is then up to the customer to decide which resin will suit its needs.
Q:  Your customer has requested a Data Sheet describing the physical performance characteristics of one of our flat steel products for use in an automotive application. Before sending the Data Sheet, you notice that it lists an inaccurate number for the grade's tensile strength. You are not too concerned about the inaccuracy because you believe that tensile strength is not an important consideration for the customer’s application. Should you send the customer the Data Sheet without correcting the inaccuracy?
A:  No. We should never send information to a customer that we know – or have reason to believe – is inaccurate, whether or not we believe it is relevant to the customer’s application. You should work with the responsible Business Unit leader to ensure that the Data Sheet is accurate and then send it to the customer.
Q:  Your customer, a small start-up company, is developing a high demand, load bearing application where personal injury is a likely consequence of part failure. Due to product development time constraints and poor cash flow, the customer is unwilling to perform adequate end-use testing to determine material suitability.  Despite assurances from the customer that it is their product and therefore their problem if the product fails, you still have concerns.  Should we sell material into this type of application?
A:  Probably not. This customer appears to be technically unsophisticated and will most likely be unable to handle a costly recall or replacement issue in the field. There are legitimate concerns about the performance of this application and the customer is unwilling to do the testing required to alleviate those concerns. In this situation, the risks of selling to this customer are likely to outweigh the probable returns. You should notify your manager who will help you decide the future course of action.
Third Party Business Dealings
Our Policy
Our third party business dealings, whether with customers, suppliers, distributors or agents, must be based on lawful, ethical and fair practices. We must never offer anything of value to obtain an improper advantage in selling our products or services, conducting business transactions or representing our interests. In our supplier relationships, we must do business only with those suppliers that comply with applicable laws, including employment, environmental and health and safety laws. The integrity of our third party dealings is fundamental to building and preserving the reputation of SABIC and its people. Conversely, unethical third party dealings can seriously damage our reputation.
Our Responsibility
FOLLOW APPLICABLE LAWS AND OUR POLICIES and require any supplier or third party who works with SABIC to comply with applicable laws and our policies. Consult Company legal counsel for the appropriate language to use in all contracts with suppliers and third parties.
FOLLOW AN “EYES WIDE OPEN” POLICY and ensure that appropriate due diligence procedures are followed when selecting suppliers or third parties (i.e., distributors and sales representatives) to represent us.
ENSURE THAT WE HAVE COMPLETED AN APPROPRIATE VERIFICATION (“KNOW YOUR
CUSTOMER”) ASSESSMENT before transacting business with a new customer.
FOLLOW SABIC’S ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY and never give, offer or authorize, directly or indirectly, anything of value (money, goods or services) to a third party to obtain an improper advantage.
WHENEVER POSSIBLE, UTILIZE COMPETITIVE BIDDING to give suppliers an opportunity to earn a share of our purchasing volume, including qualified small and disadvantaged businesses. In certain circumstances, government regulations will apply to the procurement bidding process.
Concerns to Look Out For
ANY BACKGROUND INFORMATION about a customer, supplier, distributor or agent that indicates the possibility of improper business practices or family or other relationships that could improperly influence decision-making.
ANY REQUEST TO PAY A COMMISSION prior to obtaining business.
ANY REQUEST TO DOCUMENT A TRANSACTION with a third party in a way that does not accurately reflect the economic realities of the transaction or have a legitimate business justification.
SELECTION OF SUPPLIERS ON GROUNDS OTHER THAN OPEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING
where competitive bidding would be the appropriate process of selection.
POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN THIRD PARTY SELECTION or directing business to a third party owned or managed by a close relative or a good friend.
 UNSAFE CONDITIONS, DISREGARD OF ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS OR UNDERAGE
EMPLOYMENT at supplier or other third party facilities.
Questions & Answers
Q:  You are close to signing up a new distributor to sell our resins in South America when you learn that three members of the distributor’s management team, including its president, were recently convicted of fraud and embezzlement. Can you move forward with signing up the distributor?
A:  No. Given this new information, you should look for an alternate distributor. SABIC’s reputation depends on dealing with reputable third parties who share our commitment to ethical business practices.
Q:  A new low-cost supplier offers good quality and reliable delivery at very competitive prices.
You are concerned about the working conditions it provides its workers. Do you award business to this supplier?
A:  Our reputation requires us to do business only with suppliers that deal responsibly with their workers and local environments. In light of your concerns, you should consult with your manager and Company legal counsel to determine appropriate steps to determine the suitability of the supplier.
Working With Governments
Our Policy
In the course of our business, we interact from time to time with government agencies and officials. When we do so, we must follow the highest ethical standards and comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including special laws and regulations relating to the sale or purchase of products and services and anti-bribery regulations.
Violation of a law or regulation relating to government interactions may subject both the Company and the individual employee to criminal penalties (including fines and jail sentences) or civil sanctions (damage awards, fines and debarment from future business).
Our Responsibility
ADHERE TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF HONESTY AND INTEGRITY and comply with all
applicable laws and regulations, including laws governing the sale of products and services to a government entity.
BECOME FAMILIAR WITH AND UNDERSTAND THE APPLICABLE RULES AND
REGULATIONS before engaging in business discussions with any government official or agency.
ENSURE THE ACCURACY AND COMPLETENESS of all communications with, and submissions to, government officials or agencies.
RESPECT APPLICABLE CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST LAWS AND REGULATIONS regarding the
recruitment or hiring of, or obtaining services from, present or former government officials.
REQUIRE ALL PERSONS OR FIRMS REPRESENTING SABIC in connection with government- related business (such as consultants, agents, sales representatives, distributors or independent contractors) to do so in a manner that is consistent with this policy.
FOLLOW SABIC’S ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY and never directly or indirectly offer, give or authorize a bribe in order to influence government action.
Concerns to Look Out For
GIFTS OF EVEN A NOMINAL VALUE. Do not provide any gifts or entertainment to officials of any government – local, state, provincial or national – unless you have determined, after discussions with Company legal counsel, that you are permitted to do so under applicable law.
NAUTHORIZED SUBSTITUTIONS. Do not deviate from government contracting requirements or make unauthorized contract substitutions without written approval from the relevant government official.
CONFLICTING RULES. In some instances, there may be a conflict between the applicable laws and regulations of two or more governments. When you encounter such a conflict, it is important that you consult with Company legal counsel to understand how to resolve that conflict properly.
Questions & Answers
Q:  Since the sales by my Business Unit to government agencies are almost always through an intermediary (e.g., a distributor or a subcontractor), do we still need to comply with this policy?
A:  Yes. While our status as an “indirect” seller may reduce our exposure to some of the risks covered by this policy, most of the requirements described above – e.g., the requirements of honesty and integrity in all dealings and accuracy and completeness in all submissions – still apply.
Q:  If a government agency Purchase Order references certain procurement obligations for the seller, can we ignore them since we did not expressly discuss and agree to them?
A:  No. Many government provisions are deemed automatically accepted and agreed to if not specifically rejected. You should work with Company legal counsel whenever you are involved in sales to a government agency.
OUR WORKPLACE
Environment, Health, Safety & Security (EHSS)
Our Policy
As part of our commitment to our employees, communities and environment, we shall ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and pledge to create a mindset within SABIC to strive to go beyond compliance in all our endeavors.
We are committed to be a world leader in EHSS performance and to strive for continuous improvement. We shall implement world-class processes and best practices for Process/Occupational Safety, Health, Industrial Hygiene, Environment and Security to operate our facilities in a safe, stable and compliant manner, and to implement sound solutions to conserve natural resources and minimize adverse environmental impacts. In addition, we pledge to maintain rigorous and comprehensive security and crisis management systems designed to effectively respond to crisis and emergency events in all areas of our operations.
Our Responsibility
COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE EHSS laws and regulations, SABIC’s EHSS Management Standards (SHEMS), and other EHSS requirements to which SABIC subscribes.
CREATE AND MAINTAIN A SAFE AND SECURE WORKING ENVIRONMENT and prevent
workplace injuries, illnesses and violence.
DESIGN AND OPERATE our manufacturing facilities to have effective process safety programs, reliable operations and to reduce the chance of accidents.
ASSESS AND MANAGE EHSS RISKS related to our operations, our current and future facilities, buying or selling new products/chemicals, and acquiring a new business.
PRACTICE SOUND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES in the
design and production of our facilities, products and services.
CONTINUE TO IMPROVE OUR EHSS SYSTEMS, performance and training of personnel by setting aggressive targets, providing adequate resources, and routinely measuring and monitoring our EHSS performance.
IMPLEMENT EFFECTIVE PLANS, SYSTEMS AND PROGRAMS to ensure the security of employees, persons at our premises, facilities, information, IT assets and business continuity and to prevent access to our facilities by unauthorized personnel.
ENSURE AVAILABILITY OF EFFECTIVE CRISIS MANAGEMENT and emergency response capabilities to respond to incidents and/or emergency situations at our facilities and throughout our supply chain.
COMMUNICATE TO MANAGEMENT all concerns of any unlawful or unsafe conditions and security lapses.
DEMONSTRATE VISIBLE LEADERSHIP, commitment and involvement toward our EHSS objectives.
MAINTAIN OPENNESS, TRANSPARENCY AND CONITNUING DIALOGUE with our employees,
our communities, regulatory authorities, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders, and report our sustainability performance.
Concerns to Look Out For
UNSAFE ACTIVITIES AND CONDITIONS, such as:
    failure to use personal protective equipment (shoes, safety glasses, hearing protection, gloves, monitors, etc.).
    failure to follow approved process safety operating procedures.
    unlabeled or unapproved chemicals.
    exposed or unsafe wiring.
    unsafe driving or failure to wear seatbelts.
    working in high places without fall protection.
    working on electrical or powered equipment without following safety (e.g., “lock-out, tag- out”) procedures.
    working unsafely or accepting unsafe conditions at a customer site.
    potential exposure to serious infectious diseases.
    disabling safety controls or guards on equipment and machinery.
    carrying out repetitive tasks without good ergonomic practices.
FAILURE TO COMPLY with EHSS regulations and procedures. EHSS COMPLAINTS from employees, customers or neighbors.
UNREPORTED environmental, health or safety hazards, accidents or near misses. FAILURE TO RESPOND PROMPTLY to concerns about possible product safety issues.
FAILURE TO FOLLOW POLICIES AND PROCEDURES for the management, shipping, transportation, import/export and disposal of hazardous materials.
RISKS AND LIABILITY associated with new acquisitions or ventures and new products, processes or services.
INADEQUATE SECURITY procedures, practices or suspicious activity that may present security threats to a facility, employees, persons at our premises, our proprietary information or our IT assets.
Questions and Answers
Q:  Does our EHSS policy apply only to manufacturing?
A:  No. The EHSS policy applies to all of our products, services and activities, including our offices, work at customer locations and our transactions. Wherever our employees are
working, we expect them to work safely and in compliance with all laws, regulations, internal policies and procedures and industry standards.
Q:  What about countries where there are no environmental, health, safety or security laws, or where enforcement is weak? What should we do?
A:  We are committed to being in full compliance with all applicable EHSS laws, even in countries where enforcement of the laws is weak or where the laws impose only general duties.  In all cases, however, our SABIC EHSS Policy requires that we comply with our Safety Health & Environment Management Standards (SHEMS), even if they are more stringent than local laws in order to create a mindset of “beyond compliance”. Our SHEMS consist of a comprehensive set of standards to ensure that all of our operations meet world class EHSS expectations. To assist you, we have extensive tools for managing EHSS issues anywhere in the world. If you are unaware of an applicable law or SABIC policy or procedure covering a risk that you have identified, please consult with your EHSS Manager, EHSS Regional Manager or Company legal counsel.
Q:  I sometimes see employees operating equipment differently than required by the standard operating procedures for my site (sometimes called "SOPs"), and they say that it’s okay because the equipment can still operate safely that way. Is that right?
A:  No. Standard operating procedures and other plant practices are designed to make sure we operate safely and within regulatory requirements and maintain operating reliability. If an employee feels that there is a better way to perform the procedure, then he or she should go through an appropriate management of change process. Until then, the employee should follow the standard operating procedures and you should report any non-compliance to EHSS management.
Fair Employment Practices
Our Policy
A pillar of our competitive strength is our global and diverse workforce that includes people from many different cultural backgrounds. We are committed to creating and fostering a culture of respect and fair employment practices that prohibits all forms of illegal discrimination. We will recruit, hire, discipline, dismiss, compensate, promote and provide other conditions of employment in compliance with applicable law and in a manner that respects the diversity of our employees. We will also comply with SABIC regional non-discrimination statements that address local requirements or local cultural norms provided that those norms are consistent with applicable law.
Regardless of personal backgrounds or characteristics, we must rely on each other to perform our job duties so that we (and SABIC) can reach our full potential. In order to achieve this goal, all employees must be treated with respect and dignity in all interactions. We expect all employees to be cognizant of, and to embrace, the cultural differences that exist among us.
We will observe all applicable labor and employment laws wherever we operate. That includes, wherever applicable, observing those laws that pertain to freedom of association, privacy, recognition of the right to engage in collective bargaining, the prohibition of forced, compulsory and child labor, and those laws that pertain to the elimination of any improper employment discrimination (including unlawful workplace harassment).
Our Responsibilities
USE MERIT, QUALIFICATIONS AND OTHER JOB-RELATED CRITERIA (e.g., education,
experience and competence) as the bases for employment-related decisions affecting employees and applicants in a manner consistent with our policy.
STRICTLY OBSERVE ALL APPLICABLE LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT LAWS, including those
relating to freedom of association, privacy, the right of employees to engage in collective bargaining, forced, compulsory and child labor, and non-discrimination.
PROVIDE A WORK ENVIRONMENT FREE OF HARASSMENT, such as harassment directed at a person because of his or her personal background or characteristics. Such harassment can take many forms and includes unwelcome verbal or physical conduct (e.g., use of inappropriate stereotypes, ethnic slurs, offensive jokes or verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature) which has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment.
RESPECT THE PRIVACY RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES by using, maintaining and transferring their personal data in accordance with applicable Company requirements and local law. While seeking to maintain employee privacy, however, we reserve the right to monitor use of Company property and resources (e.g., computers, e-mail, phones, proprietary information, etc.), in accordance with applicable law.
OBSERVE ANY APPLICABLE LAWS REGARDING HIRING OR PROMOTIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES as they relate to the recruitment, hiring and employment of local nationals and/or other groups.
Concerns to Look Out For
PROVIDING OR WITHHOLDING WORK-RELATED ASSISTANCE, cooperation, and/or
information to fellow employees based on their personal backgrounds or characteristics.
HIRING, COMPENSATION, PROMOTION AND LAYOFF PRACTICES that are inconsistent with our policy.
HOSTILE OR DEMEANING BEHAVIOR (e.g., telling jokes that offend or ridicule a particular race, gender, religion or ethnic group).
UNWELCOME SEXUAL ADVANCES to a fellow employee.
DISPLAYING OR POSTING (including transmitting via e-mail) inappropriate material (e.g., sexually suggestive materials, hate literature, materials that include inappropriate ethnic or religious stereotypes, etc.).
DISCLOSING EMPLOYMENT DATA to a person (either within or outside the Company) who does not have a legitimate business need, and the legal authority or the employee’s consent, to receive such data.
Questions & Answers
Q:  What specific forms of discrimination are prohibited by law?
A:  The specific forms of discrimination that are prohibited by law vary by country. SABIC is committed to following all applicable laws regarding non-discrimination in employment and has issued regional non-discrimination statements where applicable. If you have a question about applicable legal requirements, please consult Company legal counsel.
Q:  We hear a lot about “workforce diversity.” How does this concept relate to fair employment practices?
A:  Having an environment in which fair employment practices are implemented helps us compete for, attract and retain a high quality and increasingly global and diverse workforce. Diversity initiatives complement our fair employment obligations and are aimed at bringing about a greater recognition of the value and enhanced competitiveness of a workforce that includes people from many different cultural backgrounds.
Q:  What if there is a conflict between local legal requirements or customs and this policy?
A:  The Company must follow local legal requirements where it conducts business. Further, because we operate in so many countries with varied cultures, we will also give due deference to local cultural norms provided they do not conflict with our legal obligations. If you have a question whether a particular local practice is acceptable, you should consult with Company legal counsel.
Conflicts of Interest
Our Policy
Employees may have legitimate financial, business and other activities outside their work for the Company. These are their personal affairs. However, such activities must be lawful and conducted in a manner so as not to conflict with the employees’ job responsibilities for the Company. Employees must not use SABIC's name or resources for their personal affairs, use their position in the Company to obtain a personal benefit, give a relative or friend an unfair advantage or do anything that damages SABIC’s good name and reputation. Even creating the appearance of a conflict of interest can have a negative effect on the Company and must be avoided.
Our Responsibilities
AVOID ACTIONS OR RELATIONSHIPS THAT MIGHT CONFLICT OR APPEAR TO CONFLICT
with your job responsibilities or the interests of the Company; exercise good judgment in all your dealings and comply with all applicable laws and SABIC's policies. Local employment contracts or local Company policy may prohibit or restrict employment or ownership of a business interest outside the Company, or may require you to follow specific procedures. If you are unsure whether a conflict exists, or whether there are procedures you must follow, discuss it with your manager, HR, or raise it with Company legal counsel.
DO NOT USE THE COMPANY NAME, COMPANY RESOURCES (such as intellectual property, computers, equipment and offices) or your time at work for financial gain or, except as specifically permitted by local work rules, for your personal affairs.
DO NOT PROFIT PERSONALLY FROM ANY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES THAT BELONG TO
THE COMPANY or that you have learned about in the course of your work as a Company employee.
BEFORE ACCEPTING ANY POSITION AS AN OFFICER, DIRECTOR OR OTHER OFFICIAL IN ANOTHER COMPANY, NON-PROFIT ENTITY OR OTHER ORGANIZATION:
    Consider the potential impact the activity may have on the Company, including the amount of time it will require and any potential conflict of interest that may arise.
    Understand and consider your responsibilities in this role as described in the applicable by-laws and regulations.
    Obtain the approval of your manager if this organization has (or is intending to have) a business relationship with SABIC, or if it is expected that you will use your status as a Company employee for the benefit of that organization.
DISCLOSE TO YOUR MANAGER EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES, including financial investments, employment and other relationships, if they may present a conflict of interest or create the appearance of such a conflict. Make these disclosures when the situation arises and obtain any necessary approvals before the actual conflict exists.
IF YOU BECOME AWARE OF A POTENTIAL OR ACTUAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST involving
yourself or another SABIC employee, or potentially affecting the Company, raise this concern with one of the many resources available to you: your manager, Company legal counsel, Human Resources or a Company Compliance Helpline.
Concerns to Look Out For
HOLDING A FINANCIAL INTEREST IN A COMPANY while being in a position to influence SABIC’s business relationship with that company.
TAKING A PART-TIME JOB OR OTHER OCCUPATION where you are tempted to spend time during your working hours or to use Company assets or resources to perform these activities.
SERVING ON THE BOARD OF ANOTHER COMPANY, UNIVERSITY OR CHARITABLE
INSTITUTION where you will be involved in financial or investment decisions that could affect SABIC.
RECEIVING GIFTS OR SPECIAL FAVORS, such as discounts or free services, from a third party while you are in a job where you can influence SABIC’s business relationship with this party.
SOLICITING SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS AND OTHER BUSINESS CONTACTS outside of the
Company for donations to a charitable cause you are personally involved with prior to obtaining manager approval.
DIRECTING BUSINESS TO A SUPPLIER OR CUSTOMER that is owned or managed by a spouse, close relative, personal friend or business partner.
HIRING, SUPERVISING OR MAKING HR DECISIONS about a spouse, close relative or personal friend.
Questions & Answers
Q:  I work in the facilities operation of one of our large plants. I have heard that an electrical contractor at the plant whose work I oversee wants to offer me a part-time job on weekends. Would there be any issue with this?
A:  Yes. You need to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. If you find yourself in this situation, you should inform your manager of the offer. Your manager will need to determine if it is feasible for you to accept the offer since this would require you to relinquish oversight responsibilities for the contractor at our plant.
Q:  My spouse just became the office manager for a small company that provides maintenance services for our fertilizer plant where I work as a maintenance manager. In the past, I have occasionally generated sole-source authorization letters that approve the use of this service provider when we have an urgent business need. Now that my spouse took this job, do I need to let my manager know about it?
A:  Yes. You have a clear conflict of interest. You should notify your manager and Company legal counsel of your spouse’s relationship with the service provider, and you should refrain from any involvement in decisions regarding the use of that supplier.
Q:  I’ve been asked to serve on the board of a local charity that helps children with learning disabilities. I know that I am going to be asked to solicit funds from Company employees for this charity. Is that a problem?
A:  We encourage employees to serve and support non-profit organizations in their personal time. But it is important that this is not done in a way that suggests you are representing the Company. Requests for funding or donations should be reviewed for potential conflicts of interest on a case-by case business with your manager and Company legal counsel.
Privacy/Data Protection
Our Policy
An increasing number of countries regulate the collection, use and disclosure of “personal data” (e.g., name, home and office contact information, financial records and national identifying numbers). Some countries even regulate information pertaining to corporations. SABIC is committed to handling personal data responsibly in order to earn and preserve the trust of our employees and business partners. Each employee must exercise care to protect personal data from unauthorized and unlawful collection, use and disclosure.
Our Responsibility
LEARN AND COMPLY WITH THE DATA PRIVACY LAWS AND REGULATIONS that govern
personal data in the country where the data is collected, processed and used, as well as SABIC’s applicable guidelines.
COLLECT, PROCESS AND USE PERSONAL DATA ONLY FOR LEGITIMATE BUSINESS
PURPOSES. Before you establish or update any system or process that collects, uses, discloses or transmits personal data, ensure that it will be compliant with all applicable personal data requirements. If unsure, seek guidance from Company legal counsel.
USE “ANONYMOUS” AND “AGGREGATED” DATA WHERE POSSIBLE. Anonymous and/or
aggregated data should be used where the risk of transferring personal data is high, the need for the personal data is low and you can readily aggregate the data or make it anonymous.
LIMIT ACCESS TO PERSONAL DATA to those who need it for a legitimate business purpose.
USE CARE TO PREVENT UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS in processing personal data and the accidental loss or destruction of personal data.
NOTIFY YOUR MANAGER, COMPANY LEGAL COUNSEL OR SECURITY LEADER if you learn
that personal data has been used in violation of this policy or if you learn that the security of any system containing personal data has been compromised.
Concerns to Look Out For
UNNECESSARY COLLECTION OF PERSONAL DATA, particularly sensitive personal data such as health information, national identity numbers and personal financial data.
INADEQUATE SECURITY CONTROLS FOR PERSONAL DATA, such as e-mailing or otherwise distributing personal data other than on a “need to know” basis, leaving printouts with personal data in an open workspace or storing personal data on a server which can be accessed by persons without a need to access the data, or on a laptop computer or portable drive that is not protected.
STORING PERSONAL DATA LONGER THAN NECESSARY for a legitimate business purpose.
SHARING PERSONAL DATA with unaffiliated third parties, such as suppliers or customers, without considering whether the Company has the legal right to do so and whether the third parties have appropriate security safeguards and restrictions on information use.
USING PERSONAL DATA FOR A PURPOSE OTHER THAN THAT FOR WHICH IT WAS
ORIGINALLY COLLECTED without considering whether the Company has the right to do so.
CROSS-BORDER TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA, even within the SABIC group, without considering applicable legal requirements.
Questions & Answers
Q:  You attend a trade show in Germany where a potential customer hands you her business card containing her name and business contact details. Should you put this information into a Company-wide database where other employees can access it?
A:  No. In many countries, including most countries in Europe, this type of personal data is regulated by a “personal data protection” law that may prohibit you from using or sharing it if the data subject did not give her express consent. You should consult your manager or Company legal counsel for guidance on how and where you can store this information.
Q:  Your manager asks you to provide a list of all customers globally who have bought a certain basic chemical in the last 24 months so he can evaluate purchasing trends by region. When collecting this data, should you include the purchasing agents’ names and contact information?
A:  It depends. Some countries prohibit the cross-border transfer of personal data unless certain conditions have been met. Since the personal data is not necessary for your manager’s evaluation, the “best practice” would be not to include it.
Q:  The Company has just come out with a new resin line. Can we send a mass e-mail to all leads (potential customers) announcing the new resin?
A:  Possibly not. Some countries prohibit marketing e-mails without the recipient’s express consent, even where it is not part of a larger marketing campaign. Many countries have additional requirements relating to proper identification of the sender and providing the recipient with the opportunity to “opt-out” of receiving additional marketing materials. You should contact your Company legal counsel to discuss the best way to “get the message out” consistent with applicable privacy laws.
PROTECTING OUR  ASSETS
Intellectual Property
Our Policy
Our intellectual property is among SABIC’s most valuable assets. We are committed to establishing, protecting, maintaining and defending our rights in all commercially significant intellectual property and to using those rights in legally responsible ways. We must also respect the valid intellectual property rights of others. Our new products, services, processes and software should be reviewed in a timely and diligent manner to evaluate potential infringement of the valid intellectual property rights of others. Our employees must consult with Company legal counsel before making any use of the intellectual property of third parties.
Our Responsibility
IDENTIFY AND PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. Hold our trade secrets and other proprietary information in confidence, and work with Company legal counsel to secure appropriate legal protection on inventions, copyrightable material, trademarks and other                commercially significant intellectual property. Work with Company legal counsel to properly safeguard and administer all agreements relating to intellectual property.
UNDERSTAND YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES TO THE COMPANY REGARDING NEW
INVENTIONS AND IDEAS that you may develop as a Company employee. Consult with Company legal counsel if you have any question about these responsibilities.
CONSULT WITH COMPANY LEGAL COUNSEL before disclosing any confidential information to outsiders or permitting third parties, including non-wholly owned affiliates, to use Company intellectual property.
RESPECT THE VALID LEGAL RIGHTS OF OTHERS in patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property. Consult with Company legal counsel concerning necessary licenses or approvals to use such intellectual property.
DO NOT ATTEMPT TO SOLICIT OR DISCOVER THROUGH IMPROPER MEANS THE TRADE SECRETS OR OTHER PROPRIETARY INFORMATION OF OTHERS. If you became aware of
such trade secrets or proprietary information, either through prior employment or under an obligation of confidentiality, you must inform Company legal counsel and not use the information or disclose it to anyone except as approved by Company legal counsel.
CONSULT WITH COMPANY LEGAL COUNSEL if you have any questions regarding the proper use of trademarks and trade names.
Concerns to Look Out For
ACCEPTING CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION belonging to a third party, without first consulting Company legal counsel.
DISCUSSING OUR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION with third parties without the benefit of a signed confidentiality agreement.
USING ANOTHER COMPANY TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS without a written agreement covering ownership and other rights in the developed intellectual property.
SIGNING A CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT provided by a third party without prior review by Company legal counsel.
INTRODUCING, OR PUBLICLY DISCLOSING INFORMATION about, a new product or service before patent applications have been filed or a decision has been made not to file applications.
INTRODUCING A NEW PRODUCT OR SERVICE, or a new product or service name, before checking for patent or trademark infringement.
THREATENING AN INFRINGEMENT OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY without first
consulting with Company legal counsel.
RECEIVING A CLAIM FROM A THIRD PARTY that we are infringing its intellectual property rights. If this happens, immediately inform Company legal counsel.
EMPLOYING A NEW PERSON WHO PREVIOUSLY WORKED FOR A COMPETITOR without
determining whether any safeguards need to be implemented to prevent the person from inadvertently disclosing or using the confidential information of his or her previous employer. When hiring an employee who previously worked for a competitor, consult Company legal counsel.
Questions & Answers
Q:  I have an idea for an invention, and don't know if it's patentable. What do I do?
A:  Disclose your idea to Company legal counsel even if you are unsure if your idea could be patented. Prompt disclosure of all inventions to your Company legal counsel for evaluation is essential so that, if appropriate, patent applications can be timely filed to establish and preserve our rights in the invention.
Q:  You have a meeting at a customer’s facility and you are asked to sign a confidentiality agreement before entering the facility. Can you sign?
A:  No. You must have the agreement reviewed and approved by Company legal counsel before you sign.  Confidentiality agreements frequently contain provisions that require us to compromise or give away rights in Company intellectual property that are unacceptable.
Q:  What precautions should we take when sending proprietary information by e-mail to our employees and third parties?
A:  Proprietary information should be made available to our employees only on a need-to- know basis. Disclosure to other personnel could result in competitive loss, liability, or damage to our reputation. Before sending proprietary information to a third party, consult with Company legal counsel to determine whether a confidentiality agreement needs to be signed and by what means the information should be sent.
Additionally, export issues may exist if the information is to leave the country or is intended to be shared with foreign nationals. Contact Company legal counsel for guidance.
 Controllership
Our Policy
Robust controllership processes are essential to allow our management to make well-informed decisions regarding the operations of our business and to ensure integrity in disclosures to government agencies and the public. Controllership consists of three critical components: (1) proper classification of business transactions and balances; (2) rigorous internal processes to ensure that assets are safeguarded and information is recorded with accuracy and consistency; and (3) fair and timely reporting of all transactions and financial information.
Our Responsibility
COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING.
MAKE CERTAIN that financial and non-financial information and operating metrics are reported accurately and on time.
PROMPTLY CREATE COMPLETE AND TRUTHFUL RECORDS and accounts reflecting all business transactions, expenditures and expenses.
PROTECT COMPANY ASSETS (physical, financial and intellectual property) from unauthorized access, use or loss.
COMPLY WITH COMPANY DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY with respect to the approval and execution of transactions and documents.
PROVIDE TIMELY, UNBIASED PROJECTIONS AND EVALUATIONS.
COOPERATE FULLY with both internal and external independent auditors.
UNDERSTAND AND ADHERE to internal document management procedures.
SAFEGUARD DOCUMENTS that may be relevant to pending or reasonably foreseeable litigation, audits or investigations, and as directed by Company legal counsel.
Concerns to Look Out For
FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT LACK TRANSPARENCY or do not appear to reflect underlying business performance.
DISTORTED RECORDS, such as inflated travel expense reports, inaccurate timesheets or false invoices.
BUSINESS DEALS that are structured in a way that does not make economic sense. LACK OF PROCESSES AND CONTROLS to protect assets from risk of loss.
ATTEMPTS TO BYPASS internal authorization controls.
ALLOWING A THIRD PARTY VENDOR TO BEGIN WORK before an authorized purchase order has been issued.
USE OF ALTERNATE ACCOUNTING TREATMENTS without specific justification. ABSENCE OF DOCUMENTED ROUTINES AND CONTROLS, particularly at remote sites.
DESTROYING DOCUMENTS (including e-mail) without determining whether the documents are subject to legal preservation requirements.
Questions & Answers
Q:  The winning bid for a maintenance project in my area is SR 100,000. My colleague is authorized to approve expenditures up to SR 75,000. He asks me to open two purchase orders for services related to this same project, one for SR 60,000 and the other for SR 40,000. Is this okay?
A:  No. The delegation of authority is an important internal control. Your colleague may be attempting to circumvent the approval process. Since there is no clear justification for the request, you should report it to your manager.
Q:  An important raw material supplier has recently demanded a price increase. In order to ensure continuity of supply, we accept the price increase. If the supplier agrees to provide a letter characterizing the additional cost as a “reservation fee” for future supply, can the business properly capitalize this increase rather than treat it as an expense?
A:  No. Intentional accounting misclassification (e.g., cost v. capital) is unacceptable. All financial transactions must be booked in accordance with both internal business standards and the external standards applicable to your business (e.g., GAAP, IFRS, SOCPA, etc.). Use of any alternative accounting treatments must be approved by Finance and documented.
Q:  Sales are down this quarter and the business is struggling to meet its targets. You have convinced a large customer to purchase additional volume in advance of its production needs in return for a substantial price break, extended payment terms and our agreement to hold the material in inventory until they can use it.  Should you close this deal to make our sales numbers look better?
A:  No. Revenue recognition rules are very strict. From an accounting standpoint, the conditions related to the additional volume may disqualify it from being booked as sales in the current quarter. You need to consult with the Controller of the affected business before making any agreements of this type.
Money Laundering
Our Policy
People involved in criminal activity – e.g., terrorism, narcotics, bribery and financial fraud – may try to “launder” the proceeds of their crimes to hide them or make them appear legitimate. This so-called “money laundering” is a growing problem in our global economy – more than 100 countries now have laws that make it a crime to accept or process the proceeds of criminal activities. A related concern is that legitimate funds may be used to finance terrorist activity – sometimes called “reverse” money laundering.
We are committed to complying fully with all anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws throughout the world. We will conduct business only with reputable customers involved in legitimate business activities, with funds derived from legitimate sources. Each of our business units is required to implement risk-based “Know Your Customer” due diligence procedures and take reasonable steps to prevent and detect unacceptable and suspicious forms of payment. A failure to detect relationships and transactions that place us at risk of being associated with improper laundering or use of money can severely damage our reputation, and create a risk of criminal prosecution.
Our Responsibility
COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS THAT PROHIBIT MONEY
LAUNDERING and the financing or support of terrorism, and that require the reporting of cash or suspicious transactions. Understand how these laws apply to your business unit or function.
IMPLEMENT AND FOLLOW APPROPRIATE “KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER” PROCEDURES.
Conduct effective background reviews of prospective customers, agents and business partners to ensure that they are involved in legitimate business activities and their funds come from  legitimate sources.
FOLLOW THE RULES IN YOUR BUSINESS CONCERNING ACCEPTABLE FORMS OF
PAYMENT. Learn the types of payments that have become associated with money laundering (for example, multiple money orders or travelers checks, checks on behalf of a customer from an unknown third party, or cash).
IF YOU ENCOUNTER ANY WARNING SIGN OF SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY, RAISE YOUR
CONCERN PROMPTLY with Company legal counsel and do not proceed further until your concern is resolved. Be sure to fully document the resolution of your concern.
Concerns to Look Out For
A CUSTOMER, DISTRIBUTOR, AGENT OR OTHER BUSINESS PARTNER WHO IS
RELUCTANT to provide complete information provides insufficient, false or suspicious information, or is anxious to avoid reporting or record-keeping requirements.
A CUSTOMER WHO IS RELUCTANT TO PERMIT A SITE VISIT to its base of operations.
PAYMENTS USING MONETARY INSTRUMENTS THAT APPEAR TO HAVE NO IDENTIFIABLE
LINK TO THE CUSTOMER, or have been identified as money laundering mechanisms.
ORDERS, PURCHASES OR PAYMENTS THAT ARE UNUSUAL IN TYPE OR AMOUNT,
inconsistent with the customer’s trade or business or that reflect no real business purpose.
UNUSUAL FUND TRANSFERS to or from countries unrelated to the transaction or not logical for the customer.
TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING LOCATIONS OF KNOWN TERRORIST ACTIVITY, narcotics
trafficking or money laundering.
TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING FOREIGN SHELL OR OFFSHORE BANKS, unlicensed money
remitters or currency exchangers, or non-bank financial intermediaries.
STRUCTURING OF TRANSACTIONS TO AVOID REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (for example,
multiple transactions below the reportable threshold amounts).
REQUESTS TO TRANSFER MONEY OR RETURN DEPOSITS to a third party or unknown or unrecognized account.
Question & Answers
Q:  You meet a new customer at a media trade show who tells you he is starting up a new CD/DVD replication business. A week later the customer places an order for OQ resin that is far larger than you would expect from a new start-up business. Before filling the order, you request a site visit to the customer’s new facility to assess the legitimacy of his operations (including the absence of counterfeiting), and he refuses. Should you fill the order anyway?
A:  No. You have reason to be suspicious of this customer, given his unusually large order and his refusal to allow you to visit his site. Following standard “Know Your Customer” procedures, you should not sell product to this customer until you have received adequate assurances that he is operating a legitimate replication business.
Q:  A Russian customer based in Moscow places an order for an unusually large amount of methanol. The customer requests a drop shipment to the Netherlands (where it does not have a manufacturing facility) and, since the order exceeds the customer’s credit terms, he/she offers a cash advance in the form of a money order. Should you accept this order?
A:  No. This transaction raises several “red flags” – the unusually large order, the drop shipment and the payment by money order – all of which suggest the possibility of money laundering. You should decline the order and immediately notify the Finance and Legal teams.
Insider Trading & Stock Tipping
Our Policy
We are committed to the principles of fair and open markets for publicly traded securities throughout the world, because such markets offer everyone an equal chance to succeed. Insider trading and stock tipping (the use of material non-public information about a company to effect a transaction in the securities of that company) undermines these principles and is prohibited by SABIC’s policies and the laws of many countries.
Our Responsibility
NEVER BUY OR SELL the stock or other securities of any company while you have inside information about that company.
NEVER RECOMMEND OR SUGGEST THAT ANYONE ELSE BUY, SELL OR RETAIN the stock
or other securities of any company while you have inside information about that company.
CONSULT COMPANY LEGAL COUNSEL before trading in a security if you have any question as to the propriety of that trade, or before disclosing information about a publicly-traded company if you are unsure that such information can legally be conveyed to the intended recipient.
Concerns to Look Out For
FAILING TO IDENTIFY INSIDE INFORMATION. Information is “inside information” if it is non- public and a reasonable investor is likely to consider it important in making an investment decision.
INCORRECTLY ASSUMING THAT, BECAUSE SABIC IS NOT PUBLICLY-TRADED OUTSIDE OF THE GULF COOPERATION COUNCIL COUNTRIES, PROHIBITIONS ON USE OF INSIDE
INFORMATION ARE NOT APPLICABLE TO OUR EMPLOYEES when they trade in countries (including the KSA) that have insider trading prohibitions. Such prohibitions apply to the securities of all publicly-traded companies, not just the company you work for. Where insider trading is prohibited, trading on inside information about any publicly-traded company, including SABIC and our publicly-traded customers, suppliers and other business partners, is prohibited.
DISCLOSING INSIDE INFORMATION TO A THIRD PARTY to enable that party to buy, sell or hold stock or other securities of a company based on such information.
Questions & Answers
Q:  During negotiations with a large public company supplier, I was informed in confidence about an imminent, major acquisition the supplier plans to make. I would really like to invest in the supplier, given the size and nature of the planned acquisition. Is that okay?
A:  No. If the possible acquisition has not been publicly announced, this is inside information that you may not use to make a trade. If you execute a trade on the supplier’s stock based on your tip, both you and the supplier employee who provided the tip could be charged with insider trading.
Q:  I was at a trade show recently and was having a friendly conversation with an employee of a public customer. She told me that they are coming out with a “top secret” new product that will really take the market by storm. My father likes to play the stock market and I am sure he would find this information very interesting. Can I tell him about it?
A:  No. If you disclose this information to your father and he buys stock in the customer based on your tip, you, your father, and the customer employee who gave you the information could all be charged with stock tipping.
REPORTING COMPLIANCE    CONCERNS
Reporting Compliance Concerns
Our Policy
The core of a robust compliance culture is an effective mechanism that allows employees to speak up and raise actual or potential compliance concerns in a non-retaliatory environment, so that they can be addressed quickly and effectively. We all have a responsibility to raise compliance concerns or violations promptly. Failure to do so can have significant adverse consequences for SABIC and its employees. We strictly prohibit retaliation of any kind against anyone for raising or helping to address a compliance concern.
Our Responsibility
SPEAK UP. You are SABIC's “guardian” for compliance issues. Promptly raise any actual or potential compliance violation through the reporting channels available to you. The sooner a concern is raised and addressed, the better. If you are not satisfied about how your concern is being addressed, please advise your manager or Company legal counsel.
Understand the several channels that you have for raising compliance concerns, which include your manager, HR, Legal Affairs or the Compliance Helpline:
SABIC Regional Compliance Helplines: KSA and Middle East:   +800 30 22220
Americas:   +1 800 643 1614
Europe: +31 164 29 2256
Asia:   +81 285-80-2535
While you may raise a compliance concern anonymously, if you elect to identify yourself, we can follow up with you and provide feedback. Where there are legal restrictions on our ability to investigate anonymous concerns, such as in some European countries, we will comply with the law.
ALL MANAGERS SHOULD READ AND COMPLY WITH THE SABIC COMPLIANCE
INVESTIGATION GUIDELINES to ensure timely and professional reporting and handling of compliance concerns.
COOPERATE IN INVESTIGATIONS INTO COMPLIANCE CONCERNS OR VIOLATIONS. Your
identity (should you choose to disclose it) and the information you provide will be shared only on a “need-to-know” basis with those responsible for resolving the concern.

DO NOT START A COMPLIANCE INVESTIGATION WITHOUT THE INVOLVEMENT OF LEGAL
AFFAIRS OR HR. All compliance concerns should be reported through one of the channels listed above and Legal Affairs and HR will appoint an Investigation Team to ensure that the investigation is handled in an objective, professional, consistent and confidential manner.
ALL COMPLIANCE CONCERNS SHOULD BE RAISED BASED ON A GOOD FAITH BELIEF in
the legitimacy of the concern. A compliance concern should never be raised for the sole purpose of harming someone’s reputation or employment status.
DO NOT TAKE ANY RETALIATORY ACTIONS against any person for reporting a good faith compliance concern or participating in a compliance investigation.
Questions & Answers
Q:  What constitutes a compliance concern?
A:  The following are some examples of compliance concerns:
    A Violation of our Policies or applicable law.
    A request made by others to violate our Policies or applicable law.
    Failure to promptly raise a known violation of our Policies or laws.
    Failure to cooperate in investigations of possible Policy violations.
    Retaliation against another employee for reporting a compliance concern.
    Failure to demonstrate diligence to ensure compliance with our Policies.
Q:  What happens when a compliance concern is raised?
A:  Compliance concerns are thoroughly investigated in accordance with the SABIC Compliance Investigation Guidelines. Depending upon the nature and magnitude of the concern, the investigation process may include: (i) assigning an investigation team with members who have the proper expertise and objectivity; (ii) conducting an investigation, including interviews and review of relevant documents; (iii) recommending corrective actions to the appropriate managers for implementation; and (iv) providing feedback to the person raising the concern.
Q:  What if I am not sure my concern is a compliance concern?
A:  You should report your concern anyway. All reported concerns are evaluated in accordance with the SABIC Compliance Investigation Guidelines. We would rather receive and evaluate a potential concern than risk having a real compliance violation go unreported. Reporting a concern will allow the Company to make a timely assessment as to whether there is a compliance violation.
 “Performance with Integrity”

Sasol
Region: African Group
Country: South Africa
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics


A.  Introduction
Sasol takes a zero tolerance approach to any unethical conduct, whether the consequences for the group are small or severe. Zero tolerance of unethical conduct means that managers cannot ignore deviations from the Code that may take place in their  areas  of responsibility, and must take appropriate corrective or disciplinary action when someone deviates from the Code. Not taking action is in itself unethical and action will be taken against managers who ignore unethical conduct in their area of responsibility. We have always taken steps to ensure our people’s conduct is consistent with our ethical principles and standards. As our business has developed and grown, our ethical principles have evolved to take into account the changing nature of the Sasol Group and of the environments in which we operate; but at their core, our ethical principles have always been guided by our fundamental commitment to Responsibility, Honesty, Fairness and Respect. It is in staying true to these four ethical standards that we have been able to achieve the strong reputation and level of success we have today.
The Sasol Code of Ethics is the cornerstone of our ethics programme. The goal of this programme is to ensure our success continues to be rooted in the earned foundation and reputation of Sasol as an ethical business. The programme’s vision is “Ethics Always” – which means that EVERYONE in Sasol is accountable for ALWAYS acting ethically in EVERYTHING they do.

B.  Sasol’s Shared Values
Our shared values define what we stand for as an organisation and inform our actions and behaviour.
Our six shared values are:
    Safety: We are committed to zero harm and all that we do, we do safely.
    People: We create a caring, engaged and enabled work environment that recognises both individual and team contributions in pursuit of high performance.
    Integrity: We act consistently on a set of values, ethical standards and principles.
    Accountability: We take ownership of our behaviour and responsibility to perform both individually and in teams.
    Stakeholder focus: We serve our stakeholders through quality products, service solutions and value creation.
    Excellence in all we do: We deliver what we promise and add value beyond expectations.

As one of our shared values, INTEGRITY commits us to always do what is right and to maintain the highest level of ethical conduct in our interactions with each other, suppliers, customers and all other stakeholders. This Code of Ethics provides clarity on our commitment to integrity and ethical behaviour.

C.  Compliance with the Code of Ethics
The Sasol Code of Ethics applies globally, uniformly and without exception to all Sasol businesses, employees, directors, contractors and business relationships. Compliance with this policy is ultimately the responsibility of every director, employee and contractor acting on our behalf, and is a condition of their employment or contract. Each Sasol employee and director must understand how the Code applies to their areas of responsibility, adhere to the Code in all their business dealings and conduct themselves in a way that positively reflects and advances the commitments in the Code. Those in leadership positions have an added responsibility and accountability for applying our ethical standards in their areas of responsibility.

D.  Sasol’s Policy on Respecting Human Rights
We support the protection and advancement of human rights in all spheres of our business and recognise our responsibility to respect human rights, and to avoid complicity  in human rights abuses, throughout our operations and in our relationships. Our approach to human rights is guided by the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 including various international treaties. Amongst others, we subscribe to and endorse the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
 Fulfilling our commitment to human rights requires ongoing engagement with stakeholders. We report annually on our human rights performance, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in Sasol’s Integrated Report. In addition, we are open to transparent engagement with affected stakeholders in response to specific concerns.
This Code incorporates our policy to respect and advance internationally recognised human rights in all spheres of our business, details of which are discussed under the appropriate sections in the Code.

E.  Breaches of the Sasol Code of Ethics
Violations of this Code of Ethics will lead to disciplinary action in accordance with the Sasol disciplinary procedures, in line with our commitment to conducting Sasol business with integrity, characterised by zero tolerance to unethical conduct. Disciplinary action may involve sanctions up to and including summary dismissal.
We advocate free and open communication and strive to create an environment in which employees feel comfortable to discuss ethical concerns with their line managers. We also recognise that individuals whose ethical interests and human rights have been negatively affected should have access to appropriate grievance mechanisms, and that steps should be taken to remediate harm caused within a reasonable time.

F.  Whistleblowing
Unethical conduct and transgression of the Code of Ethics should be reported timeously and dealt with through the appropriate mechanisms. If you become aware of a circumstance or action that appears to violate the Sasol values, Code of Ethics, Sasol policies or laws we are subject to, you should contact your supervisor or manager as soon as possible. If you are not able to get an answer to a question, or resolve an issue covered under the Code by working with your manager or through other appropriate mechanisms, you should contact the Sasol EthicsLine to report the matter through the following details:
South Africa    0800 016 017
Canada  1855 421 8968
China   400 1203 284
Germany 0800 182 5967
Italy   800 786 522
Singapore   1800 216 3302
UK  0800 032 4498
USA 1800 489 1727
e-mail  sasol@ethics-line.com 
The contact details of the Sasol EthicsLine can also be found on the Sasol intranet under the “EthicsAlways” link, and on the Sasol internet website under the “Sustainability” menu.

The EthicsLine is a confidential and independent system through which any person can report suspected transgressions of the Code. If the person making such a report so chooses, he or she may remain anonymous  or  have his  or  her  identity kept confidential. All valid reports  will be investigated (should sufficient information be provided) and appropriate corrective action will be taken. Employees and leaders who violate the spirit or letter of the Code are subject to disciplinary action, which could result in termination of their employment.

G.  Protected Disclosures

We strictly prohibit any form of retaliation, intimidation, harassment or victimisation against an employee who in good faith makes a report or raises a concern that he or she reasonably believes to be a violation of Sasol’s Code of Ethics. Retaliation against employees is prohibited even if their reports or concerns are proven unfounded by an investigation.

This anti-retaliation policy is intended to encourage all employees to cooperate with Sasol in the investigation of any matter by providing honest, truthful and complete information without fear of retaliation.

No employee, regardless  of the country in which he or  she is  employed, will be discharged, demoted, suspended, threatened, harassed, intimidated, coerced or retaliated against in any manner as a result of him or her making a report in good faith of a possible violation of the Code or assisting in the handling or investigation of allegations made in good faith.


Employees have an obligation to participate in good faith in any internal investigation of retaliation. Employees who make a complaint in good faith or participate in an investigation or proceeding under this policy, however, are not excused of their obligations to perform and conduct themselves in accordance with the standards applicable for performance and conduct.

Reports that are made to Sasol in bad faith, or which knowingly contain false and misleading information, or which are malicious, are unacceptable and may lead to disciplinary action or other corrective action.
We take all complaints of retaliation very seriously. All such complaints will be reviewed promptly and investigated and appropriate action taken, including disciplinary action up to and including dismissal of the employee responsible for reprisals. If you believe you have been retaliated against you should contact the Group Ethics Office or the Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer.

H.  Amendments to the Code of Ethics

The Code of Ethics will be periodically reviewed by Sasol’s Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer to ensure that our employees meet the high ethical standards we expect, who will determine whether revisions are necessary. The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer will, from time to time, make non- material changes for practical or organisational reasons to the Code, or issue practice notes on the practical implementation of parts of the Code if such a need arises. The Nomination, Governance, Social and Ethics Committee is responsible for approving material revisions to the Code of Ethics on behalf of the Sasol Limited Board of Directors.
 
SASOL’S ETHICAL PRINCIPLES AND BEHAVIOURAL STANDARDS

1   RESPONSIBILITY

We act responsibly in everything that we do

1.1 Stakeholder relations:
We hold ourselves accountable to all stakeholders for acting responsibly

Earning the trust of all our  stakeholders  is  essential to our  business, and we hold ourselves accountable for acting responsibly to all stakeholders. As a responsible corporate citizen, we build relationships with all our stakeholders on the basis of the principles and standards outlined in our values and this Code and expect our stakeholders to hold us accountable for adhering to the commitments in this Code.
1.2 Compliance:
We comply with all applicable legal requirements as a minimum standard.

We are subject to many legal jurisdictions given the global nature of our operations and activities, with our employees and officials working under different laws and regulations in each country. Wherever we operate or do business, we respect and comply with the legal requirements, local laws and regulations that apply to our business, even if compliance appears to be unfavourable to Sasol. All employees and directors are responsible for knowing and complying with the laws that apply to them wherever they perform work.

Compliance with laws and Sasol policies is the minimum ethical standard that we adhere to, but our commitment to ethical conduct is not driven just by compliance. Where the applicable  laws, business rules or procedures are lenient, or where different local standards exist, we will choose the course of integrity and apply either the Code or local requirements – whichever sets the highest standard of behaviour.

This applies similar to sanction laws, which might be applicable to our businesses. We will adhere to all applicable sanction laws and in case of a conflict with other applicable laws, we will consult with relevant stakeholders to determine the optimal way forward in line with our Code.

Whether transgressing or omitting to follow legal requirements or our own approved policies, rules and procedures, we view any instance of non-compliance in a serious light. Our policies, business rules and procedures are created to ensure consistency, fairness and effective business management across the group.
 
It is a condition of their working relationship with us that our suppliers also comply with all legal requirements, local laws and relevant Sasol policies. Every Sasol employee who deals with suppliers should make sure he or she has sufficient knowledge of the services and products suppliers provide, to reduce the risk to Sasol, whether reputational, financial or legal, of illegal or unethical actions by our suppliers.

1.3 Good governance and ethical management practices:
We subscribe to good governance and ethical management practices.

Being accountable for acting responsibly towards our stakeholders includes committing to the sound governance of all our activities. Our approach to governance, reporting, segregation of duties and management practices is structured and transparent, and we have, and adhere to, appropriate approval processes to ensure that decisions are evaluated in an impartial, informed and effective way. Where necessary, issues are escalated promptly, concisely and accurately to the next level of management or governance authority, and we actively create an environment where constructive criticism and feedback is valued and where we can learn from our successes and failures.

Reliable internal controls are crucial to being able to accurately account for and report on financial and other matters in a way that is complete and accurate. All managers are required to implement appropriate internal control mechanisms in their areas of responsibility and to ensure that legal compliance and risk management processes are in line with Sasol group requirements. This responsibility extends to applying all applicable policies and procedures and monitoring their implementation by following a structured approach to reporting, risk management, internal control and auditing. We expect all employees to familiarise themselves with, and adhere to, the applicable policies and procedures related to their positions. Employees are encouraged to talk to their supervisors, managers if they suspect that a procedure or business practice does not adequately detect or prevent incidents, inaccuracy, waste or fraud.

1.4 Government relations and engagements:
We conduct our engagements at governmental or political level consistent with our ethical standards.

In the course of doing business in South Africa and globally, we interact regularly with governments and government officials. We engage constructively with all governments in whose jurisdictions we operate and aim to be transparent and cooperative in our dealings with all governmental bodies. Sasol businesses do not allow or make payments or other contributions to government officials or political parties. Sasol does not take part in party politics in any country.

Employees engaging in active party political activities are to do so as private citizens and not as representatives of Sasol and must make it clear that they do not represent the company in such activities.

1.5 Safeguarding and use of company assets:
We apply our assets and resources appropriately to maximise sustainable shareholder returns.

Our primary responsibility is to grow shareholder value sustainably and we apply our resources and conduct our activities to achieve this objective.

Our employees are the custodians of our assets and resources, which they are required to apply and use appropriately, effectively and efficiently to achieve our long term goals. Sasol assets and resources are not to be used for personal purposes unless approved in accordance with an official Sasol group policy. Managers are not entitled to request subordinates to perform personal favours that are not work related.
1.6 Quality of customer service and products:
We serve our customers through quality products, solution and value creation.

We commit to meet our customers’ needs by providing world-class service, optimal product performance and efficient support systems at competitive prices for their particular requirements. Each of us must ensure that our individual decisions and actions contribute to a positive perception of Sasol, enhance our customers’ satisfaction and promote their loyalty.

We continuously strive to improve our products, services, technology and procedures to deliver quality, safety and innovation at every stage of the extraction, development, production, sale and distribution process. We identify and manage risks associated with our products and do not manufacture or sell products when we cannot reasonably ensure an acceptable level of safety for people and the environment.

All market research and advertising, as well as presentations of products and services, must be done honestly, and in accordance with generally accepted principles of fair competition. We are truthful in any claims we make about our products and offerings, including their safety, quality, performance expectations, limitations and environmental impact, and deliver to the best of our ability on agreed requirements. We only promise what we can deliver and do not underquote to obtain a customer’s business to lock them into unsustainable contracts or foreclose markets.
 
1.7 Safety, health and protection of the environment:
We are committed to safety, health and the protection of the environment.

The safety and health of our people and service providers, and the protection of the environment are business imperatives which require our consistent and unrelenting focus.

Safety remains a top priority and a core value for everyone at Sasol and we strive to provide a safe and healthy work environment for all our employees. We are committed to achieving our safety goal of zero harm, and strive to eliminate incidents, minimise risk and promote excellence in operational performance. We expect our employees and service providers globally, to take personal responsibility for this ambition in all of our day-to-day activities, and work with them to maintain and improve a safe and healthy work environment.
Our approach to safety and health is built on a strong foundation of leadership and competency, and is strengthened by clear policies and procedures relating to incident investigation, safety risk management and best practice performance standards. We identify and specify precautions required in handling, transporting, using and disposing of our products. We take reasonable steps to communicate these precautions to employees, customers, and others who might be affected.

In addition to treating stakeholders with respect as explained in this Code, we also treat the natural environment with respect. We recognise the impact our activities may have on the natural environment and we are committed to conducting our business with care for the environment and to promoting the responsible use of natural resources. In managing our business, we are committed to managing our company in an ethical manner that strikes a balance between economic, social and environmental needs, and as such actively identify cost-effective opportunities to minimise our environmental impacts in our planning and decision making processes.
1.8 Use of information and communication technology:
We use information and communication technology responsibly and professionally.
Information and communication technology resources  such as  computers, mobile devices  and services such as the internet, Sasol intranet systems, e-mail and telephones are important business enablers. These resources are to be applied for legitimate business activities by authorised individuals. Usage of the devices supplied by Sasol for business reasons may be monitored by Sasol, subject to local and international laws and regulations.
Employees are expected to use electronic information and communication technology in a responsible,  legal  and  professional  manner.  Reasonable  private  use  is  tolerated  as  long  as
 
employees do not violate Sasol’s policies and standards of acceptable behaviour. Employees may use social media in their private capacity and time, however this should be done in a way that does not bring Sasol into any form of disrepute or result in embarrassment. Grievances against Sasol or its employees, of any nature should be dealt with in the appropriate and prescribed manner in terms of the Sasol Disciplinary Code for Employees and employees must refrain from airing workplace grievances via social networks.

All employees must keep access codes (for example, passwords) and access cards secure, and not share them with others. Anyone with a system identity and access code is responsible for activities performed under that identity.

2   HONESTY

We are honest and truthful in all our action and relationships

2.1 Honest dealing:
We are honest and truthful in everything we do.

We are honest and truthful in everything we do. We reject all forms of dishonesty and have a policy of zero tolerance of illegal or dishonest conduct, irrespective of whether the consequences are big or small.

We are honest in our dealings with all stakeholders and will rather lose business or miss out on profitable business opportunities than obtain or retain it dishonestly, illegally or through unethical means.

Although it is impossible to list all conceivable acts or forms of dishonesty, both direct and indirect acts and forms of dishonesty are unacceptable. Although dishonest conduct may not always be criminal or illegal, it is still unethical and therefore unacceptable.

2.2 Accurate reporting:
Our accounts and reports are accurate and not misleading.
 
Honest, accurate and objective recording and reporting of information – whether financial or non- financial (for example on safety, health and environmental or operational issues) – are essential for managing our business in a sustainable manner. We maintain appropriate records and information to satisfy our operating requirements, comply with regulations and adhere to accounting reporting requirements that apply to Sasol. All Sasol records, as well as reports produced from those records, are to be kept and presented in accordance with the laws of each applicable jurisdiction, and must accurately reflect our operations and activities in reasonable detail. All business transactions must be reflected accurately and fairly in our statutory and management accounts, in accordance with established practices, official policies and procedures, and are subject to internal and/or external audit.
2.3 Bribery, fraud, corruption and money laundering:
We reject all forms of bribery, fraud, corruption and money laundering.

We will not engage in, condone or tolerate any corrupt or dishonest practice. It is unacceptable for any employee, official partner, supplier, customer or any other stakeholder to offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form, whether it is done directly or indirectly, or whether the benefit is to the employee or any third party, whether related to the employee or not. No employee or director will offer or accept any form of inducement, regardless of whether the other party to the transaction is an individual, a company or a government agency, nor may they accept or offer any benefit that could be construed as an attempt to improperly influence or induce business decisions.

We expressly prohibit improper payments in all business dealings, in any country, to either governments or the private sector, with the intention of obtaining a contract, permit or any other specific benefit or any improper advantage in the conduct of business. Any attempted transaction of this nature should be reported immediately to your line manager, Sasol Assurance Services or the Sasol EthicsLine.

“Facilitation” payments are not allowed in any aspect of doing business. Only if the refusal to make a facilitation payment or other kind of duress payment would reasonably put your personal safety or freedom at immediate risk may you make such a payment, but must inform your manager (at vice president level at least), or your Compliance Officer or the Group Ethics Office immediately thereafter.
We manage counterparty risk by conducting due diligence checks prior to entering into a business relationship with third parties.
Employees must report any suspicious or unusual transactions to Sasol Forensic Services. Furthermore, employees must not be involved in any form of money laundering activity, deal with suspected criminals or proceeds of crime.
2.4 Conflicts of interests:
We avoid undue conflicts of interest.

Good business practice requires that employees and officials make fair and objective decisions in Sasol’s best interests. To this end, we must avoid situations that may result in actual or perceived conflicts of interest, which must be declared, registered and their impact mitigated in accordance with the Sasol policy on conflicts of interests, gifts and entertainment.

The responsibility for evaluating, declaring and managing possible conflicts of interest lies with every Sasol officer and employee. Any form of nepotism or preferential treatment involving family or close friends represents an unacceptable conflict of interest and will not be tolerated.

Employees may not be engaged or take part, directly or indirectly, whether as an employee, an entrepreneur, a director or in any other remunerative capacity, in any other business without the employer’s prior written consent and after lodging a declaration in respect of such private remunerative engagements.

2.5 Gifts and Entertainment:
We only accept gifts and entertainment that are reasonable and not excessive.

Any gifts and entertainment, whether offered or received, should be reasonable and not excessive in value, given the specific context of the situation. Gifts or entertainment that are excessive,
 
unreasonable, or which may cause conflicts of interest, should be tactfully declined by indicating that their acceptance violates Sasol’s policy. Gifts and entertainment should not be offered or accepted if they are intended to influence, could influence, or be seen to influence, anyone’s objectivity in carrying out his/her duties, or create an obligation to reciprocate in any way. Receiving cash and cash equivalent payments is prohibited, as is giving or receiving gifts or entertainment that contravenes any law.
If there is any doubt whether a gift or entertainment is acceptable, the matter should be discussed with your line manager, ethics officer or legal advisor. We recommend a conservative approach to accepting or giving gifts or entertainment.
Special care must be taken when dealing with government officials, as many countries do not allow any exchange of gifts and entertainment with public officials. In general, do not offer anything of value to a government official – neither directly nor indirectly. Please refer to the Sasol Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy for more detail on the Sasol requirements when dealing with government officials, available at http://inet.sasol.com/en-za/LegalandIntellectualPropertyServices/Pages/COE-  Governance-Law.aspx
Employees must consult that Sasol policy on conflicts of interests, gifts and entertainment for approval and declaration requirements.
2.6 Donations and sponsorships:
We are honest and transparent with sponsorships, contributions to charitable organisation and donations.

All charitable contributions and sponsorships should be approved transparently and according to the defined Sasol procedures. Employees should consult with Public Affairs and Regulatory Affairs and Legal, Intellectual Property and Regulatory Services before engaging with sponsorships and donations.

 2.7    Business dealings with partners, suppliers and customers:
We are honest and truthful in our business dealings with partners, suppliers and customers.

Our business obligations and interests are long term in nature and our relationships with suppliers and customers are based on transparent, lawful, efficient and fair practices. We always deal truthfully with partners, customers and suppliers, treat them honestly and do not engage in unfair, deceptive or misleading practices. We never offer, promise or provide anything to a partner, customer or supplier in exchange for obtaining an inappropriate advantage.

We honour agreements entered into by a duly authorised Sasol officer. We promise only what we can reasonably foresee to deliver and keep to our commitments to the best of our abilities. We are transparent and honest in our intentions and negotiations. We do not engage in business negotiations or request quotations or proposals unless we have truthful business intentions. In being transparent and open, we are guided by our four ethical standards of Responsibility, Honesty, Fairness and Respect.

We respect the autonomy of clients and suppliers to decide the way in which they do business and who they do business with. We will refrain from intervening in the business processes of suppliers and customers, other than in accordance with defined agreements or with their expressed consent. We accept that we are associated with the conduct of our suppliers or sub-contractors of suppliers, and partners or sub-contractors of partners.

We reserve the right to decide which entities we do business with and we will only do business with companies or institutions that have integrity and that ascribe to similar values and ethics as ours. Our relations with all suppliers, customers and business partners will be based solely on objective business criteria; these include in particular quality, reliability and competitive prices, as well as compliance with standards relating to safety, the environment, and human rights and applicable laws. We will take care not to make use of conflict minerals and metals (i.e., metals or minerals from
 
mines in a region known for using mining to fund armed militias), or to be complicit in the use of conflict minerals or metals through our relationships with partners, suppliers or customers.

Sasol employees and directors  will not misuse their  official Sasol positions, status  or  Sasol’s purchasing power to obtain personal benefits on terms which are not available to the general public, whether directly or indirectly. Employees and directors should take active steps to avoid receiving such benefits, even if unsolicited.

2.8 Imports and exports:
We are honest with and take responsibility for our imports and exports across international borders.

We comply with international control regulations when buying, producing or transferring products or services across international borders. It is not acceptable for any person to participate or assist in the import or export of goods or services from or to a country in breach of trade restrictions that are supported by the United Nations or in accordance with any other applicable sanctions law.
The provisions of the Chemical Weapons Convention and the laws and international conventions regulating trafficking and dealing in certain substances are particularly relevant to some of our products. Employees must ensure that they do not buy, produce or sell chemicals or other substances on behalf of Sasol in breach of these regulations.

3   FAIRNESS

We conduct all aspects of our business fairly and justly.

3.1 Just and fair treatment:
We treat others justly and fairly.

The duty to treat others justly and fairly is particularly relevant where the consequences of our decisions may be material to any of our stakeholders or not aligned with their expectations. In everything we do, we strive to treat others the way we would like to be treated.

3.2 Business decisions:
We make fair and just business decisions.

Our business decisions are based on policy, strategy, facts and objective analysis and not on prejudices, irrational emotion or other biased factors. We sincerely consider the ethical aspects and implications of alternatives on our own long term business and on others before making business decisions.

 3.3    Anti-trust and competition law:
We compete fairly.
Sasol supports fair business practices and fair competition. We believe that fair competition is fundamental to free enterprise and although our businesses compete with determination, we will do so fairly and in full compliance with anti-trust or competition legislation. In relationships with competitors, principals and agents, suppliers and customers, we avoid arrangements that restrict our ability to compete with others. We will not engage in any anti-competitive practices, arrangements, understandings or agreements with competitors affecting prices. We are committed to continuous training of our employees on competition/anti-trust law to mitigate the risk of non- compliance.

Employees must comply strictly with the anti-trust or competition laws of all countries and regions in which they conduct business. Employees must refrain from any kind of anti-competitive behaviour and not even appear to be party to any such activities. Instances where our competitors try to solicit information regarding competitive information such as price and volumes, or try to engage Sasol employees in anti-competitive actions, should be reported to the Legal, Intellectual Property and Regulatory Services function and/or Governance, Compliance and Ethics function immediately.
 
We collect competitive information only through legal and ethical processes and means that are also available to other competitors. Such information will only be used for legitimate Sasol business purposes and we will not reveal competitive information obtained through such processes to other third parties such as competitors, suppliers or customers.

3.4 Procurement and contracting policies:
We adhere to fair procurement and contracting practices.

Sasol’s suppliers play a critically important role in our ability to operate and provide products and services to our customers. We can achieve our objectives only if we are trusted by our suppliers and service providers, which require the highest professional and personal ethics in our relationships with suppliers. We respect our suppliers’ and partners’ interests and as such provide transparent and fairly negotiated contract terms.

Suppliers of goods, services and capital are afforded a fair opportunity to compete for the group’s business on the basis of clear and transparent procurement procedures and evaluation criteria and in line with the Sasol sourcing strategy. Suppliers are carefully selected through objective selection processes, based on merit and objective factors such as price, quality, delivery, service, past performance and business alignment. We are committed to contribute to black economic empowerment in South Africa, in accordance with our black economic empowerment procurement policy.

We strive to develop relationships with suppliers that share similar values and that conduct business in a manner consistent with our Code of Ethics. A clear framework outlining our expectations of contractors and suppliers is provided in our Supplier Code of Ethics as a precondition for doing business with Sasol and to inform the process of evaluating and selecting major suppliers and contractors. The ongoing business relationship between Sasol and our suppliers is based only on their ability to meet our business needs competitively and to adhere to our Supplier Code of Ethics. We expect our suppliers and service providers to improve their human rights performance; safety, health and environment performance; and to always comply with legal standards and procedures.

Any procurement irregularity or suspicion thereof should be reported to Sasol management or the Sasol EthicsLine.

3.5 Fair and timely disclosures:
We make fair and timely disclosures.

Sasol complies with rules and laws that govern the fair and timely disclosure of material information and developments relating to our organisation and businesses. We are honest and transparent in our communication and make full, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in reports and documents. We keep investors, creditors, funders, stock markets, employees, principals and agents, distributors, suppliers, the communities in which we operate and the general public informed on a timely basis through the public release of relevant and understandable information. Such
 
disclosures are done openly to all affected stakeholders, without preference or favouritism to any group or selectively to groups of shareholders or potential investors.

We respond appropriately to legitimate public inquiries – including those from the news media and governments – with courteous and honest answers through members of our executive leadership and employees who are authorised to speak publicly on behalf of Sasol.

3.6 Equal opportunities and diversity:
We provide equal opportunities and do not discriminate unfairly.

We value our employees and recognise the critical contribution they make to our success. We are committed to ensuring equal opportunity and eradicating discriminatory practices, and have zero tolerance for unfair discrimination on the basis of race, colour, religion, gender, age, language, culture, nationality, ethnic or social origin, trade union affiliation, political opinion, sexual orientation or health status. In addition, we make specific provision for the employment of qualified individuals with disabilities. We administer our employee policies, programmes and practices in a non- discriminatory manner in all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, work assignment, discipline, promotion, transfer, termination, wage and salary administration, and selection for training.

Managers and supervisors are responsible for promptly identifying and resolving any concerns regarding equal employment opportunity or discrimination. Each employee is expected to maintain quality relationships with his or her colleagues and to refrain from any act of discrimination.

We acknowledge that diversity is key to our global growth and success and are committed to enhancing diversity and driving employment equity goals to create an inclusive workplace.

Broad-based black economic empowerment or the advancement of certain historically disadvantaged groupings under specific conditions is consistent with our ethical obligations. We believe that restorative and compensatory justice can be essential ethical approaches to rectify past discrimination in a responsible way. While the rights of all people are respected, balance may be required to manifest the rights of other groupings, such as certain ethnic groups, people from a specific gender or disabled people. In addition to providing equal employment opportunity, we develop programmes and practices that facilitate employment and development of such designated groups at every level of the organisation.
 
3.7 Employment conditions:
We provide fair wages, benefits and working conditions.

We provide remuneration, benefits and working conditions that are fair and competitive, regard being had to the industry, location and in compliance with applicable minimum wage legislation and working time regulations. In countries where the legislated minimum wage is set below a level consistent with a decent standard of living, we will aim to pay a wage that is at least sufficient to meet the basic need of workers and their direct families.
While we are entrenching a high performance culture, we respect every individual’s basic human rights and the fact that they always deserve to be treated with respect and dignity. We strive for a healthy balance between our work and our family/private lives. We offer employees appropriate opportunities to develop their skills and capabilities and provide opportunities for advancement where feasible.

We recognise and respect our employees’ right to choose to associate or not to associate with organised labour entities, such as a legally recognised labour union, without fear of intimidation, discrimination, reprisal or external pressure. We will seek to work in good faith with recognised trade unions and other recognised bodies that our employees collectively choose to represent them within the appropriate legal framework. Where employees are represented by a recognised organised labour entity, we will establish dialogue with freely chosen employee representatives to enable management and employees to understand each other’s views. We are committed to engaging in the collective bargaining process in good faith.

4   RESPECT

We respect international standards and are respectful in every aspect of how we do business.

4.1 Human Rights:
We respect and advance human rights.


Aligned with our human rights policy (Section F), we recognise our responsibility to respect and value human rights, and to avoid complicity in human rights abuses, throughout our operations and in our relationships. We will conduct periodic human rights due diligence reviews of our ongoing activities and new business opportunities with the aim of avoiding adverse human rights impacts on our workforce and the communities in which we operate.

Due to the nature, location and scale of our activities, our commitment to respecting human rights extends specifically to non-discrimination and respect for diversity, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, the right to a safe and healthy working environment, the prohibition of forced labour and child labour, establishing fair and competitive wages and benefits, respecting the rights of our local communities, security arrangements, protecting the environment and managing our supply chain. These aspects are all discussed in more detail throughout this Code, under the appropriate sections.
 
We prohibit all forms of forced or compulsory labour within our operations, whether in the form of prison labour, indentured labour, bonded labour, slave labour or any other non-voluntary labour. We do not tolerate the use of child labour and ensure that all our employees are above the legal employment age in the country of their employment. Where national law is insufficient, we reference international standards as outlined in the relevant International Labour Organisation Conventions.

When operating in areas or countries with high levels of conflict, poor human rights records or weak governance or conflict, we strive to follow the principles outlined in the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Where national law conflicts with any of the human rights principles that we have committed to, we will respect the national law, while striving to honour the spirit of these international principles.

4.2 Security in the workplace:
We provide a secure workplace that does not infringe on human rights.


The protection of our people, assets, service providers and operations is essential and we are committed to providing secure workplaces. We design, implement and enforce appropriate systems, processes, measures and capacity to secure our workplaces, protect our people and business, prevent security incidents and effectively respond in instances where such incidents have occurred. This is done in a way that does not infringe on internationally declared human rights.

We acknowledge that the deployment of security services may present particular human rights risks in some instances, especially in regions where security services are not properly regulated or in high conflict environments. With the aim of minimising such risks, we will include human rights criteria as part of pre-qualification screening, due diligence processes and contractual provisions and clauses for all security contractors and personnel working on our behalf. These criteria will seek to ensure that security personnel demonstrate respect for universal human rights, and comply with the applicable rules, legislation and ethical practices on the use of force and firearms.

4.3 Alcohol, drug and other substance abuse:
We respect the security, safety and efficiency of ourselves and others.

Alcohol, drug or other substance abuse impairs people’s ability to perform properly and may have serious adverse effects on people, not only on their own security, safety, efficiency and productivity, but also the security, safety and efficiency of others. The misuse of legitimate drugs, or the use, possession, distribution or sale of illicit or controlled substances on company premises, is strictly prohibited. We do not allow a person who is under any level of intoxication from prescription or non- prescription drugs, alcohol or any other controlled substance to work on our premises.
We reserve the right to test any person who wants to access our sites with his or her consent for intoxication and also have the right to refuse access should it be detected.
 
4.4 Stakeholder relations:
We treat all stakeholders with respect and dignity.


We believe that every employee is entitled to fair and humane treatment, courtesy and respect. We expect all directors and employees, when engaging in any activity, to use language and behave in such a way that is not likely to be experienced or reasonably perceived by another party as disrespectful or undignified. Among others, respect and dignity implies that we refrain from unfair discrimination, abusive or offensive language, or threatening behaviour. We treat everyone with respect and dignity, regardless of their position, the significance of their interest in Sasol or the significance of our business interest in them.

4.5 Harassment or abusive behaviour in the workplace:
We do not tolerate any form of abusive behaviour or harassment.
We do not tolerate any form of abusive behaviour or harassment, in any company workplace or work related environment, toward or among employees, contractors, suppliers, customers or others. Abusive behaviour and harassment can be destructive to a positive work environment and will not be tolerated.
Forms of harassment that are unacceptable include, but are not limited to, intimidation; threatening language or gestures; actual or threatened physical violence; sexually, racially or otherwise derogatory or discriminatory materials, statements or remarks; humiliation, bullying or mobbing; verbal or physical abuse or any threats thereof; unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance; and any form of sexual harassment.

4.6 Protection of intellectual property and confidential inside information:
We respect and protect our intellectual property and confidential inside information.
Employees and officials must protect and not disclose any of our intellectual property or confidential information to outside parties that are not reasonably entitled to possess such information for
legitimate business reasons. Any disclosure of intellectual property or confidential information must be done in accordance with our Disclosure Control Policy and procedures.
Directors and employees must always keep confidential information secret, safeguard it from loss, theft, damage or misuse and protect it against unauthorised access by third parties. Please contact the vice president: company secretarial services or the vice president: group corporate branding and communication to obtain copies of our Disclosure Control Policy, or download it from our intranet at http://inet.sasol.com/en-  za/GovernanceandEthics/CompanySecretarialServices/Pages/GovernancePolicies.aspx

We respect and protect the confidential and sensitive information that has been entrusted to us by outside parties such as suppliers, customers, partners or communities and will not share such information with other parties. We will not knowingly infringe on or misuse the intellectual property rights of third parties. We expect employees and other stakeholders to treat the intellectual property in their possession from prior engagements with equal confidentiality.
In this context, the storage and destruction of information be it in paper or electronic format plays an important role. We have to manage the lifecycle of our information from the creation to destruction in line with our document and records management policies. This helps to manage the confidentiality of our information in an orderly manner. Employees will be able to obtain the applicable document retention schedules from our local legal advisors.

Inside information, such as material financial information and future plans, may have significant value to others and therefore must be kept strictly confidential. Confidential and non-public information should only be disclosed to others inside Sasol, if they have a valid business reason to have the information or if required or permitted by law. Inside information about Sasol may not be used by any director or employee for personal gain or benefit.

Directors or employees who have access to non-public information about Sasol which, if made public, could have an effect on the Sasol share price, are required to abstain from trading in shares or other securities of the company whether directly or indirectly. Please contact the vice president: company secretarial services to obtain a copy of Sasol’s policy regarding insider trading, or access it on the Sasol intranet under the company secretarial services page.

4.7 Local communities:
We respect the rights, customs and cultures of societies and local communities.
We recognise that our decisions and activities may impact on our surrounding communities. We are committed to being responsive to community concerns, and will take steps to minimise negative impacts on communities. We strive to work collaboratively and transparently with local communities, in accordance with the principle of free, prior and informed consent. We strive to avoid involuntary resettlement through project design. When resettlement is unavoidable, we will follow the guidelines provided in relevant International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards and applicable host-country regulatory requirements.
We acknowledge and respect the wide diversity of customs, traditions and values that exist among the indigenous communities and cultures in the countries in which we operate. We respect such differences and maintain flexible business practices to the extent that we can do so in keeping with the principles and standards of the Code and compliance to relevant national and international legislation. We are committed to engaging with indigenous communities in a manner that is respectful of their cultures and customs, and that seeks to find an appropriate balance between respecting cultural heritage and community expectations for economic development.
Sasol conducts its business in a way that is consistent with global standards and has an interest in contributing constructively to the stability and prosperity of the countries we operate in. We contribute time and resources to social responsibility priorities, both as a company and as individuals. National, non-political priorities such as improving productivity, promoting education, capacity building, poverty reduction, crime prevention, as well as campaigns to improve health and economic stability of communities, deserve our enthusiastic support. We assess and report on the contribution of our operations to society and the communities in which we operate.

4.8 Personal privacy:
We respect and value people’s right to personal privacy.
We are committed to protecting the confidentiality of our employees’ personal information and adhere to strict standards when processing such information. We only collect and retain personal employee information that is required for the effective operation of Sasol, or that is required by law in places where we operate, and do so only by lawful and fair means. We safeguard the security and confidentiality of company records containing personal information appropriately and  limit access to such information only to those who have a legitimate need for it and when permitted by
law. All personal data collected and held by Sasol is stored and processed fairly, transparently, carefully and in compliance with applicable local and international data privacy laws.
All employees must exercise care and discretion in handling personal data. Those with access to personal employee data must only use it for the purpose for which it was collected or for legitimate business purposes, and adhere to the highest standards of confidentiality when using it. Confidential employee information must not be disclosed to anyone outside the company without proper authorisation or unless required by law. If you are in any doubt, consult the legal and intellectual property services function.

CLOSING NOTE
The Code is available in all business languages of the countries in which we operate. To ensure that this Code of Ethics is consistently understood and applied throughout the group, we will provide the necessary training and awareness-raising programmes as part of our efforts to advance an ethical culture and promote respect for human rights. Appropriate ethical considerations will form part of all our business decisions and procedures. We will periodically review this Code and revise it as needed to ensure effective implementation within our management processes and procedures.
Science Council of Japan (SCJ)
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Japan
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct for Scientists
2 Code of Conduct for Scientists
Science is a system of knowledge based on the principles of reason and empirical
proof that is assiduously built up over time, and constitutes an irreplaceable
common asset of all humanity. Scientific research is an act that creates new
knowledge by boldly pursuing the challenges of unknown fields.
Science and scientific research exist both with and for society. Therefore, research
activities based on scientific freedom and the subjective judgment of scientists only
gain social recognition once they are premised upon public trust and the mandate of
the people. Here, the word “scientists” refers to researchers and specialists engaged
in activities that create new knowledge, or in the use and application of scientific
knowledge, in all academic fields ranging from humanities and social sciences to
natural sciences, regardless of which institution they belong to.
While scientists engaged in such intellectual activities enjoy the prerogative to
pursue truth under academic freedom based on their own expert judgments, as
experts they also bear a grave responsibility to respond to the mandate given to them
by society at large. Especially in the modern world, where scientific activities and
their results exert a vast and profound influence on all humanity, society demands
that scientists always make ethical judgments and engage in ethical actions. Thus,
for science to contribute to realizing a more affluent human society through its own
sound growth and development, scientists must establish ethical norms to strictly
control their own conduct, while fulfilling their obligation of accountability to
society and consciously taking part in building and maintaining sound relationships
between science and society. Ethics for scientists also constitute a basic framework
whereby society can demonstrate its understanding of science and seek dialog with
science.
Based on the fundamental recognition described above, the Science Council of
Japan has formulated a Code of Conduct consisting of ethical principles that should
originate in the autonomy of scientists and are minimum requirements common to
all academic fields. Adherence to such ethical principles is essential, both to ensure
the quality of scientific knowledge and for individual scientists and the scientific
community to gain the trust and respect of society at large.
1. Responsibilities of Scientists
Scientists shall recognize that they are responsible for assuring the quality of the
specialized knowledge and skills that they themselves create, and for using their
expert knowledge, skills and experience to contribute to the health and welfare of
humankind, the safety and security of society and the sustainability of the global
environment.
5
2. Conduct of Scientists
Scientists shall recognize that scientific autonomy is upheld by public trust and
the mandate of the people, and shall always make judgments and act with honesty
and integrity. Moreover, scientists shall make the utmost effort to scientifically and
objectively demonstrate the accuracy and validity of the knowledge they create
through scientific research, and shall actively participate in mutual quality
assurance such as peer reviews in the scientific community, especially in their
respective fields of expertise.
3. Continuous Professional Development
As well as endeavoring to maintain and improve their own expertise, abilities and
skills, scientists shall constantly strive to understand the relationships between
science, technology, society and the natural environment from a wide-ranging
perspective, and to demonstrate the best judgments and attitudes at all times.
4. Accountability and Disclosure
Scientists shall strive to disclose and actively explain the roles and significance
of their own research, evaluate the possible effects of their research on people,
society and the environment as well as the changes that their research might
engender, neutrally and objectively disclose the results of this evaluation, and build
a constructive dialog with society.
5. Research Activities
Scientists shall act with integrity according to the spirit of this Code of Conduct
in drafting, planning, applying for, implementing and reporting their own research,
ensure that research and survey data are recorded, stored and rigorously handled,
and not only refrain themselves from any misconduct such as fabrication,
falsification or plagiarism, but also refrain from aiding or abetting such
misconduct.
6. Establishing Sound Research Environments
Scientists shall recognize that establishing and maintaining fair research
environments where responsible research can be conducted is one of their important
duties, and shall actively participate in efforts to improve the quality of research
environments in the scientific community and their own institutions. Moreover,
they shall also seek the understanding and cooperation of the public in achieving
these goals.
7. Compliance with Laws and Regulations
Scientists shall observe all laws, regulations and relevant rules in their activities,
including the implementation of research and the use of research funds.
6
8. Consideration for Research Subjects.
Scientists shall respect the dignity and rights of individuals who cooperate with
their research, and shall safeguard and give proper consideration to their welfare.
They shall also treat animals and other research subjects with all due care and
respect.
9. Relations with Others
Scientists shall constructively criticize the results of other scientists’ research,
humbly listen to the criticism of others, and exchange opinions with an attitude of
sincerity. Moreover, they shall properly give credit to other scientists’ intellectual
findings and achievements, as well as respecting the honor and intellectual property
rights of others.
10. Rejection of Discrimination
In their research, education and academic society activities, scientists shall
respond to others fairly on a scientific basis, respect individual freedom and
character, and not discriminate against individuals based on their race, gender,
status, beliefs or religion.
11. Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
In their research, reviews, evaluations, judgments and other scientific activities,
scientists shall pay sufficient heed to the presence of conflicts of interest between
individuals and organizations, or between different organizations, and shall
properly address problems paying all due attention to the public interest.
7
3 Toward Autonomous Implementation of the Code of Conduct for Scientists
The Science Council of Japan herewith requests that each university, college,
research institution, academic association and funding agency independently
implements a specific program on research ethics (i.e. formulates and applies a code
of ethics and a code of conduct) at the earliest possible date. The objectives of this
request are to promote the well-balanced development of science with the help of
the independent scientific community, and to promote the independent and honest
conduct of scientists in light of the aims and needs of their respective organizations.
The following are examples of specific efforts requested herewith. The gist of
“The Code of Conduct of Scientists” may also be consulted for reference.
The Responsibility of Organizational Managers
1. A code of ethics and code of conduct, including the gist of “The Code of
Conduct of Scientists”, should be formulated and circulated among all members
of the organization to ensure their compliance.
2. Those responsible for the management of the organization should lead the
program on research ethics and lay down necessary measures to be taken in the
event of scientific misconduct. In each organization, they should arrange for
their own system of response to research ethics, including permanent special
committees, divisions, and persons in charge.
The Need for Education on Research Ethics
3. In each organization, the code of conduct essential to research activities, such as
the prohibition of misconduct and the recording, storage and rigorous handling
of research data, as well as research ethics that properly maintain the
relationship between research activities and society, should be continuously
imparted to members through education, training and information activities. In
particular, young scientists should have the opportunity to study past cases of
misconduct and thereby learn the critical importance of research ethics.
Important Points for Research Groups
4. Research groups in each organization should create a research environment
suitable for frank exchanges of opinions on research ethics and for the daily
operation of peer reviews. For that purpose, these groups should continuously
strive to secure freedom, impartiality, transparency, and openness both in terms
of their management and the human relationships within the groups. Every
member of the group should share the awareness of group objectives to the effect
that, through their engagement in scientific research, they are participating in a
8
precious intellectual endeavor in the public sphere.
Important Points for Research Processes
5. Scientists should be reminded of the need to observe the Code of Conduct and
act in good faith in all processes such as proposing, planning, applying for and
implementing research, as well as reporting the results thereof.
Dealing with Misconduct in Research
6. To deal with possible misconduct such as fabrication, falsification or plagiarism,
the following measures should be taken at the earliest possible date:
(1) A proper channel should be set up for consultation on suspected misconduct.
At the same time, particular attention should be paid to the importance of
ascertaining whether the suspicion is false.
(2) All due consideration should be made to ensure that anyone reporting
misconduct should not suffer disadvantage as a result thereof.
(3) When there is suspicion of misconduct, relevant facts should be promptly
investigated in accordance with due procedures, necessary measures should be
taken with impartiality, and the result should be made public. Particularly
strict measures should be taken in the case of fabrication, falsification or
plagiarism.
7. Everyone in the organization should be reminded of relevant laws, ordinances
and regulations in carrying out research and using research funds. Due
consideration should be given to prevent research activity from becoming unduly
constricted, while appropriate rules should be worked out to deal with conflicts
of interests.
Establishing a Self-monitoring System
8. The program on research ethics should be continuously assessed and improved
through a system of self-monitoring and self-audit.

Shell Code of Conduct
Region: WEOG
Country: Netherlands
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

CODE OF CONDUCT
Helping you live by our Core Values and our General Business Principles
INTRODUCING THE CODE OF CONDUCT
This is your Code of Conduct and it is relevant to you. Read it. Understand it. Follow it. The rules and guidelines contained in this handbook are the boundaries within which every Shell employee must operate every day. The Code does not exempt anyone. Following our core values and Business Principles, it instructs and advises you how to avoid situations that may damage you or Shell.
It sets high standards and shows you how to achieve them.
WHAT... IS THE CODE OF CONDUCT?
RULES STANDARDS
EXPECTED BEHAVIOURS
WHO... IS THE CODE OF CONDUCT FOR?
Every employee, director or officer in every wholly-owned Shell company and in every Joint Venture company under  Shell control must follow the Code of Conduct. Contract staff must also follow the Code. Contractors or consultants who are our agents or working on our behalf or in our name, through outsourcing of services, processes or any business activity, will be required to act consistently with the Code when acting on
our behalf. Independent contractors or consultants will be made aware of the Code as it applies to our staff in their dealings with them. Joint Venture companies not under Shell control are encouraged by Shell to adopt similar principles and standards.
WHY... DO WE NEED A CODE OF CONDUCT?
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT
 

ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES
HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
To describe the behaviour expected of our employees and how they relate to our Business Principles and core values.
The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this publication, the expressions ‘Shell’, ‘Group’ and ‘Shell Group’ are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell companies in general. Likewise the words ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ are also used to refer to Shell companies in general or those who work for them. These expressions are also used where there is no purpose in identifying specific companies.

HOW... CAN THE CODE OF CONDUCT HELP YOU?

Inside you will find practical advice about laws and regulations, expectations and guidance about relating to others. We also provide directions to further information sources to help you use your own good judgement.
Introduction

The principles of ethical business behaviour are laid down in the Shell General Business Principles (SGBP) and the Code of Conduct. The SGBP govern how Shell companies conduct their affairs. This Code of Conduct describes the behaviour Shell expects of you and what you can expect of
Shell. The language is not legalistic and the Code is more than a set of rules. It should be viewed as an essential guide.
The values underlying the SGBP and the Code of Conduct are obvious and
universal – honesty, integrity and respect for people. Your conduct will be judged by how you live by those values, and how you have met the intention and spirit of the principles in the Code.

In some cases you may need to read more detailed material to understand fully what is required. We tell you where you can find that additional material at the bottom of the following pages. You also have a responsibility to accept personal invitations to training on the topics highlighted in
this Code.
 

Tell Shell
Throughout the Code you will see situations in which you are expected to ‘Tell Shell’ and report or seek advice about your concerns. You can do so by reporting
or talking to:
your line manager or supervisor;
any other senior Shell person with whom you feel comfortable to have such a conversation, or to whom you could send an email or letter, e.g. a Human Resources or Legal representative or a Compliance Officer; or
the Shell Helpline (anonymously if you prefer), the numbers of which can be found at sww.shell.com/
ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/ global_helpline.html.
The Helpline is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week through a local telephone number in each country or through the Internet. Individuals calling the Helpline will talk in confidence to an experienced, independent operator. Their reported concerns will be logged and handled in accordance with consistent case management and investigation guidelines. Questions will be channelled to people who can answer them.

In the Code we mention specific areas where a breach of the Code is likely to carry severe consequences. But all breaches may involve serious consequences up to and including dismissal, and in some cases fines and  imprisonment.
PEOPLE AND SAFETY
Shell aims to do no harm to people and to protect the environment. You should treat others fairly and with respect. Shell is an inclusive company. Discrimination and harassment are unacceptable.
People and Safety
HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT (HSSE) AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE (SP)
To have a HSSE & SP record we can be proud of, we are committed to the goal of doing no harm to people and protecting the environment, while developing energy resources, products and services consistent with these aims. We aim to earn the confidence of customers, shareholders and society, to be a good neighbour and to contribute to sustainable development.
These aims and others are included in the Shell Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP.
Every Shell company is required to have a systematic approach to HSSE & SP
management designed to ensure compliance with the law and to achieve continuous performance  improvement.

Each Shell company should set targets for HSSE & SP improvement and measure, appraise and report performance levels. Shell companies must also ensure contractors and joint ventures under Shell’s operational control manage HSSE & SP in line with the Commitment and Policy.

To support the aims in the Commitment and Policy, the Shell HSSE & SP Control Framework is a single source for requirements for managing the impacts of our operations and projects on society and the environment.
 
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You should understand the Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP and the  HSSE & SP Control Framework.
You should follow the Golden Rules and the Life-Saving Rules.
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/hse/  sww.shell.com/hse/goal_zero/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/   sww.shell.com/hse/goal_zero/LSR/index.html report_concerns/global_helpline.html
People and Safety
2   SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Sustainable development for Shell means helping to meet the world’s growing energy needs in ways that are economically, environmentally and
socially responsible. Shell’s commitment to sustainable development requires
us to balance our short- and long-term interests; and integrate economic, health, safety, security, environmental and social considerations into business decisions.
Sustainable development is a licence to operate imperative and Shell embraces sustainable development principles within all its activities to deliver sustainable outcomes. This requires us to engage regularly with, and take account of the views of our stakeholders in order to create new profitable opportunities and reduce our technical, non-technical and financial risks while respecting the needs of
our neighbours.
 YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must comply with Shell’s health, safety, security, environment and social performance requirements. Each business must aim to create lasting social benefi safeguard the health and safety of employees, contractors and neighbours;
minimise disruptions to the community; lower emissions; minimise impact on ecosystems and biodiversity; and use energy, water  and other resources more effi    .
 
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/sd/ sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html

OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT
ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES
 HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
 3  EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
Shell will ensure that its employment-related decisions are based on relevant qualifi merit, performance and other job-related factors. Shell will not tolerate unlawful discrimination relating to employment.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
Respect everyone you deal with and behave fairly towards them according  to Shell’s core values and the SGBP. You should understand the value of diversity and never discriminate.

THE PRINCIPLES
You should base hiring, evaluation, promotion, training, development, discipline, compensation and termination decisions on qualifications, merit, performance and business considerations only.
Do not discriminate according to race, colour, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, ethnic origin or nationality.
Be aware of local legislation and  cultural factors that may impact decisions.
 
CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Are you being fair and respectful?
Have you considered the other person’s views?
Are your personal feelings, prejudices or preferences infl  your decisions?
Do you understand local practices and customs?

WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww-shellpeople.europe.shell.com/irj/portal/HR/HR sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html

People and Safety
4   HARASSMENT
Shell will not tolerate harassment. Shell will not tolerate any action, conduct or behaviour which is humiliating, intimidating or hostile. You should be particularly sensitive to actions or behaviours that may be acceptable in  one culture but not in another.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
Treat others with respect and avoid situations that may be perceived as inappropriate. Challenge someone if you find their behaviour hostile, intimidating or humiliating. Harassment can result in disciplinary action and may lead
to dismissal.

THE PRINCIPLES
Do not physically or verbally intimidate or humiliate others.
Never make inappropriate jokes or comments. If you are unsure whether something is inappropriate assume that it is.
Never distribute or display offensive or derogatory material, including pictures.
Don’t be afraid to speak up and tell a person if you are upset by his or her actions or behaviour. Explain why and ask them to stop.
 
CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Have you behaved appropriately?
Have you behaved in an embarrassing or threatening manner?
Have you made inappropriate jokes or comments?
Have you distributed or displayed potentially offensive material?
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww-shellpeople.europe.shell.com/irj/portal/HR/HR sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
     
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT

ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES
 

HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
 
5   HUMAN RIGHTS
 
Conducting our activities in a manner that respects human rights as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the core conventions of the International Labour Organization supports our licence to operate.

Shell’s approach to respecting human rights consists of several core elements, including adherence to corporate policies, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, regular dialogue and engagement with our stakeholders and contributing, directly or indirectly, to the general wellbeing of the communities within which we work.

Our commitments in this area are supported by the Shell General Business Principles, this Code of Conduct and relevant Group policies in such diverse areas as:
Social Performance;
Human Resources, including Diversity and Inclusiveness; and
Contracting and Procurement.
 
We seek business partners and suppliers that observe standards similar to ours.

All employees must understand the human rights issues where they work and follow Shell’s commitments, standards and policies on this topic.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You should understand the human rights issues where you work and follow Shell’s commitments, standards and policies.
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/sd/issues/human/Human_Rights.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
FIGHTING CORRUPT PRACTICES
 
Shell does not tolerate bribery, insider dealing, market abuse, fraud or money laundering. Facilitation payments are bribes and must not be paid. You must also avoid any real or potential conflict of interest (or the appearance of a conflict) and never offer or accept inappropriate gifts or hospitality.
Remember, even unsubstantiated claims of corruption can damage reputations and business.
 Fighting Corrupt Practices
1  BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION

Bribery occurs when you offer, pay, seek or accept a payment, gift or favour to influence a business outcome improperly.
Bribery and corruption – whether involving government officials, or commercial entities, including joint ventures – can be direct or indirect through third parties like agents and joint venture partners. It includes facilitation payments even though in some countries facilitation payments are legal. Even turning a blind eye to your suspicions of bribery and corruption can result in liability for
Shell and for you personally.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must not offer, pay, make, seek or accept a personal payment, gift or favour in return for favourable treatment or to  gain any business advantage. You must follow the anti-bribery and corruption laws that we are subject to, both those of the countries we are operating in, and those which apply outside the country whose laws they are (for example, the UK and US). You are liable to disciplinary
action, dismissal, legal proceedings and possibly imprisonment if you are involved in bribery and corruption.
 
THE PRINCIPLES
Never offer, pay, make, seek or accept a personal payment, gift or favour
in return for favourable treatment, to influence a business outcome or to gain any business advantage.
Ensure people you work with understand bribery and corruption is  unacceptable.
Tell Shell if you suspect or know of corruption in Shell or in any party (company or individual) Shell does business with.

CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Have you offered, given or received money, a gift or favour to infl a business decision?
Would you care if the public knew what you had done?
Are you intending to or have you given a donation which might be regarded as an improper payment?
 
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/finance/controllers/Controls_Governance_Assurance/anti_fraud/Anti_Fraud_Website.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
Fighting Corrupt Practices

DEALING WITH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
 
3   GIFTS AND HOSPITALITY (G&H)
 
The offering of gifts and hospitality (G&H) including travel-related expenses for government officials creates special concerns. The principles below are subject  to the Shell Anti-corruption Manual. Some countries have very strict limitations on the value and nature of gifts and entertainment their officials can accept. G&H that are acceptable between private business partners may be unacceptable between a business and an official. In addition, third- party behaviour can result in liability for you and Shell if you fail to conduct appropriate due diligence on third parties who deal with government offi  on Shell’s behalf, or if you disregard the results of such due diligence.

THE PRINCIPLES
You must have permission from Shell to offer G&H to government officials.
The value of G&H must not exceed the prescribed limit for the type of payment and the country in question. Check these limits at sww.shell.com/ ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html
You must not offer G&H to the spouses, family members or guests of a government official.
You must not pay for non-business travel and hospitality for any government official.
You must comply with all applicable laws and with Shell’s internal procedures regarding G&H to government  officials.
 
G&H must never influence your business decisions and must not place you or Shell under any obligation.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must not allow G&H to influence your business decisions, or cause others to perceive an influence. If you are influenced or seek to influence someone you can face legal or disciplinary action or dismissal.

THE PRINCIPLES
Shell discourages its employees from accepting G&H from business partners.
Decline G&H if you would feel uncomfortable telling your line manager or supervisor, colleagues, family,  friends or the public that you had accepted them.
You and your family members must never in connection with Shell business offer, give, seek or accept:
–   illegal or inappropriate G&H;
–   cash or cash equivalents;
–   personal services;
–   loans;
–   events or meals where the business partner is absent; or
–   G&H during periods when important business decisions are being made.
 
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/BandC/themanual.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
     
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT

ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES
 HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
Never offer, give, seek or accept G&H that exceed prescribed value limits, unless line manager approval has  been obtained. These value limits
are listed at sww.shell.com/ ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html
You must register:
–   all G&H given to government officials, except those of nominal value like a cup of coffee;
–   any G&H that could be perceived as creating a conflict of interest;
–   all G&H given or received from third parties that exceed allowed value limits; and
–   all declined G&H that exceed allowed value limits.
Make Shell’s policy on G&H known to your business partners.
Discuss corporate hospitality or sponsorship with your manager.
Comply with laws and regulations.
Understand that local customs cannot be followed if they conflict with Shell’s policies.
 
CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Did receipt of the G&H make you feel you were under an obligation?
Is the gift being given as an exceptional reward or incentive for a transaction?
Is the G&H inappropriate or illegal?
Is the timing of the G&H sensitive (e.g. during negotiations)?

WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww-groupcoi.shell.com/
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
Fighting Corrupt Practices

4   CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (COI)
 
You face a COI when your personal relationships, participation in external activities or interest in another venture influence or could be perceived to influence your decisions.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must avoid COI. Your Shell decisions must not be influenced by personal
and private considerations. A COI can influence your decision-making, or be perceived to do so, and jeopardise your reputation and that of Shell. A failure
to follow the requirements of this Code or any laws or regulations can result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment.

THE PRINCIPLES
Declare to your line manager or supervisor any matter that could influence or be perceived to influence your decisions or actions at Shell.
Give your line manager all the relevant facts in writing if you believe there is an actual or potential COI.
Register all actual or perceived COI in the Group COI and G&H register.
Withdraw from decision-making that creates, or could be perceived to create,  a  COI.
Be impartial, professional and competitive in your dealings with contractors and suppliers.
 
Tell Shell if you plan to use your knowledge or position for external material gain.
You can be active in your own time in community, government, educational and other non-profit organisations
if you comply with relevant laws, regulations and Shell policies.
You can acquire interests in other businesses and perform external professional activities in your own time if no actual or potential COI would result. If in doubt, please consult your line manager or supervisor.


CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Are you hiring, managing, reviewing or appraising a relative or friend?
Are you using your position for personal gain?
Have you personally gained from confidential information?
Are your personal relationships influencing business decisions?

WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww-groupcoi.shell.com/
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
         
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT
ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES
HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
5   INSIDER DEALING
You are involved in insider dealing
when you trade in shares or other securities while in possession of material non-public information or when you share this information with someone else who then trades in those shares or other securities.
It is a criminal offence to deal in Royal Dutch Shell plc (RDS) shares or other securities on the basis of inside information.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must protect confidential business information and never use it for your own benefi  especially to trade in shares or other securities or recommend anyone else to do so. You must not spread rumours, mislead with false information or manipulate prices. Insider dealing and market abuse are unlawful activities and could lead to fines, dismissal or imprisonment.
 
THE PRINCIPLES
Follow laws on insider dealing and market abuse.
Follow Shell policies when trading in the shares or other securities of RDS or any other relevant company.
Do not buy or sell securities in RDS or in any other company while you have inside information about those shares or securities, even if you are no longer a Shell employee.
Do not manipulate market prices.
Do not spread market rumours or false information.
Tell Shell if you believe a colleague to be involved in insider dealing or market manipulation.

CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Are you holding inside information?
Are you or your immediate family planning market dealings involving RDS securities?
Have you shared confidential information?
Have you spread market rumours or misled the market?

WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
Fighting Corrupt Practices

6   MONEY LAUNDERING
Money laundering occurs when the criminal origin or nature of money or assets is hidden in legitimate business dealings or when legitimate funds are used to support criminal activities, including the financing of terrorism. Offences covered by anti-money laundering legislation include: prejudicing or obstructing an investigation and failing to report suspicious activity.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
Shell could be exploited by criminals to launder money or fund criminal activities. You must conduct appropriate counterparty due diligence to understand the business and background of our prospective business partners and to determine the origin and destination of money and property. You must report suspicious transactions or incidents of money laundering. Failure to do so can lead
to fines, dismissal or imprisonment.
 
THE PRINCIPLES
Never deal with suspected criminals or the proceeds of crime.
Report any suspicious transactions or individuals to Shell. (Shell will in turn report appropriate matters to the authorities.)
Do not acquire, use or hold monetary proceeds or property acquired with the proceeds of crime.
Do not hide the origin or nature of criminal property.
Do not facilitate the acquiring, ownership or control of criminal property.
Do not tip off the subject of an investigation.
Do not falsify, conceal, destroy or dispose of relevant documents.


CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Can you verify transaction details?
Is someone offering commercial terms outside expected market conditions?
Are the settlement methods unusual or are unconnected parties involved?
Are all due diligence checks in order?

WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
         
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT

ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES

HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
 7   POLITICAL ACTIVITY AND PAYMENTS

Your political activity and payments risk being viewed as those of Shell and may impact our business or reputation.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must not contribute Shell funds or resources to political campaigns, political parties, political candidates or anyone associated with them. You must ensure your personal political activities are not represented to be those of Shell. Political activity and payments can cause a conflict of interest and can harm Shell’s business dealings and reputation. A failure to  follow the requirements of this Code or any laws or regulations may result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment.
 
THE PRINCIPLES
Do not use a Shell account for political payments.
Do not make charitable donations  as a substitute for political payments.
Do not allow Shell funds to be used via industry bodies or by other means to make party political contributions.
Obtain, when necessary, Shell’s permission before standing for public office.
Comply with laws regulating political participation.

CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Are you using your position to support politicians or parties?
Are business decisions being made improperly to influence politics?
Are you using Shell’s account to fund politics?
Are you using Shell resources for party political work?
 
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
WHAT’S IN THIS CHAPTER?
Antitrust (Competition) Law 19
Export Controls and Sanctions   20
Import Controls and Sanctions   20
 
NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE
 
Shell is committed to free, fair and ethical enterprise. You must follow  all applicable trade laws and ensure Shell’s core values are applied in all
your dealings. A failure to comply with these laws and regulations can severely damage our business and expose us
to criminal charges. You could face dismissal, fines and imprisonment.
 National and International Trade
1   ANTITRUST (COMPETITION) LAW
Antitrust law protects free enterprise and prohibits behaviour that limits trade or that restricts fair competition. These laws apply to every level of business. They combat illegal practices like price-fixing, market-sharing or bid-rigging conspiracies, or behaviours that aim to achieve or maintain monopoly. Shell does not tolerate violation of antitrust laws.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must not agree with competitors of Shell to fi  price or any elements of price (such   as discounts, rebates or surcharges). You
must not agree with others not to compete in particular markets or for particular customers or accounts. You must not rig bids or tenders, and you must not agree with others to boycott any customers or suppliers except in connection with internationally imposed sanctions. Agreements with competitors to reduce or stabilise production, capacity
or output are forbidden. You must also  not agree with independent dealers or resellers to fix a minimum resale price of a product. Anti-competitive behaviour will damage Shell’s business and reputation for fairness and honesty. Anti-competitive practices are unacceptable. They are illegal in most countries and can lead
to heavy fines and imprisonment.

THE PRINCIPLES
Do not agree, even informally, with competitors on pricing, production, customers or markets without a lawful reason. Always get legal advice on whether a practice is lawful.
 
Decisions on Shell’s pricing, production, customers and markets must be made by Shell alone.
Do not discuss with competitors:
–   which suppliers, customers or contractors Shell deals and will deal with; or
–   which markets Shell intends to sell into or on what terms Shell will deal.
Leave industry meetings if competitively sensitive issues arise and ensure your departure is noticed. Report the matter to Shell Legal and your Business or Function Compliance Offi    .
Tell Shell if you know of any potentially anti-competitive practices or if you are uncertain whether practices are legal or not.

CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Was competitively sensitive information discussed at an industry meeting (either directly or indirectly)?
Have I tried to set the resale price of my dealers or distributors?
Are our suppliers or customers involved in any anti-competitive behaviour?
Do I know what my line reports are doing?
Have I obtained the relevant legal  advice?
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
National and International Trade
EXPORT CONTROLS AND SANCTIONS
 
IMPORT CONTROLS AND SANCTIONS

Export Controls and Sanctions laws
give countries legal control over the sale, shipment, electronic transfer or disclosure of information, software, goods and services across national borders. Exports include transfers electronically, through discussions or visual inspections, and not only through traditional shipping methods.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
Think carefully about the potential impact of export control laws and sanctions before transferring goods, technology, software or services across national borders. Remember that controls and sanctions (or embargoes) can be imposed against countries, entities, individuals
and goods. You must know which of these controls or sanctions may result in restrictions or prohibitions on the way you
conduct business. Shell could face criminal charges, fines and loss of export privileges if you do not comply with the relevant controls and sanctions. You could face dismissal, fines or imprisonment.
 Import Controls and Sanctions laws give countries legal control over the purchase, shipment, electronic transfer or disclosure of information, software, goods and services into their jurisdiction. Import controls apply to Shell as a company and also to you personally.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must meet import requirements when bringing goods or services into a country, ensuring duties, levies and taxes are paid.
You must not bring restricted goods into a country without declaring them. You
must seek legal advice if you have doubts about an import. You must not import prohibited goods. Failure to observe import control laws and sanctions can cause operational delays and damage business. Shell could also face legal consequences, including fines and loss of privileges. You could face dismissal, fines or imprisonment.
 
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
         
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT
ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES

HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE

THE PRINCIPLES
(FOR EXPORT AND IMPORT CONTROLS AND SANCTIONS)
Make sure you have proper authorisation before exporting or importing goods, technology, software or services across national borders.
Know your customers and suppliers and how they will use the goods, technology, software or services that you supply to them.
Seek legal advice before doing business with a country or individual if sanctions apply.
Do not import from a country to which sanctions apply, into a country which applied those sanctions.
Keep up to date with changing rules.
Get legal advice if you have doubts about export and import controls
or sanctions.
 
CHALLENGE YOURSELF
(FOR EXPORT AND IMPORT CONTROLS AND SANCTIONS)
Do you understand the applicable export and import controls?
Do you know which countries, entities, individuals and goods have had sanctions applied?
Have the relevant duties, levies and taxes been paid?
Have you obtained all required permits?
Are you importing or exporting restricted or prohibited goods?

WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
SAFEGUARDING INFORMATION AND ASSETS
Intellectual, physical and financial corporate assets are valuable and must be preserved, protected and managed properly. Personal Data and Intellectual Property (IP) must be safeguarded.
Information Technology (IT) and communications facilities should be used responsibly. Records must be accurate and appropriately retained. Fraud,
theft, abuse or misuse of Shell’s assets is unacceptable.
Safeguarding Information and Assets
1   PROTECTION OF ASSETS
Corporate assets can be financial,
physical or intangible and include buildings, equipment, funds, software, know how, data, patents and other IP.
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must protect Shell assets against waste, loss, damage, misuse, theft, misappropriation or infringement. You must use Shell assets appropriately and responsibly. You must respect the physical and intangible assets of others. A failure to follow the requirements of this Code  or any laws or regulations may result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment.
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/finance/controllers/Controls_Governance_Assurance/anti_fraud/Anti_Fraud_Website.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
Safeguarding Information and Assets
1.1 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

IP assets and rights, including patents, trademarks, know how, and trade secrets relating to Shell’s operations or technologies are among Shell’s most valuable assets.
IP is a key strategic tool for achieving business objectives and must be managed with proper care.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must follow the Shell IP Standard.
THE PRINCIPLES
Each business and substantial sub-unit of a business must have IP strategies.
Shell companies must properly protect Group IP.
Third-party IP rights must not be knowingly infringed.
Shell companies must comply with intra-Group arrangements on IP.
Intellectual Property Services (IPS) must be consulted in a timely manner about transactions and IP-related agreements, which should be made with proper authority and implemented as agreed.
IP disputes and related communications must be handled through the IPS team.
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
     
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT
ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES
 

HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
1.2 PERSONAL USE OF IT
IT and communication facilities include personal computers, mobile and desk phones and personal digital assistants. A limited use of Shell IT and communication facilities for personal use is currently generally acceptable but could be reviewed. The use, including your personal use, of Shell’s IT and communication facilities is logged and monitored.
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You should apply high ethical standards, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and ensure you meet Shell’s security requirements when using Shell IT and communication facilities. Your personal use of Shell’s IT and communication facilities should not incur more than a nominal cost or negatively affect productivity. Improper use of these facilities could be illegal and could damage Shell. Shell may report illegal use to the proper authorities.

THE PRINCIPLES
Ensure your personal use of Shell IT and communication facilities is occasional and brief.
Do not use the Shell network or data storage space on the network for entertainment purposes or to store your personal data.
Remain in control of the IT and communication facilities you are responsible for if others use them.
 
Do not upload, download, send or view pornography or other indecent or objectionable material or material that is illegal or which could cause offence, anxiety, inconvenience or annoyance to your colleagues.
Include the Shell name or brand in your business communications
but remove it from personal emails. Use Shell security measures.
Ensure you comply with the Communications requirements as laid out in this Code.
Get authorisation before installing software or connecting hardware.
Do not use Shell IT or communication facilities for unlawful or immoral activities or purposes (including the violation of IP rights or the commission of cybercrime), or to gamble, or to conduct your own business activities.
CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Can you explain and justify your personal use?
Have you uploaded, downloaded or transmitted objectionable material?
Have you removed the Shell footer from personal emails?
Did you receive approval to install software?
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
Safeguarding Information and Assets
2   DATA PRIVACY AND PROTECTION (DP)
DP laws safeguard information about individuals. This information includes name and contact details, employment and financial information, age and nationality. Information on race or ethnic origin, religion or philosophical beliefs, health or sexual orientation, criminal behaviour or trade union membership is
sensitive personal data and subject to stricter controls. Shell respects the basic right
of individuals – including employees, customers and suppliers – to privacy.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must respect a person’s right to privacy and follow applicable laws and Shell’s internal privacy rules when gathering
or using their data. Personal information about individuals must be protected from misuse. You must follow correct procedures when collecting, using and sharing this data. Failure to keep personal data confidential and secure could lead to dismissal and prosecution. Protect personnel and business files which
contain personal data.


THE PRINCIPLES
Follow Shell’s DP Manual when gathering, handling, storing, using or sharing personal data.
Use appropriate physical and IT safeguards. Tell Shell if you know of or suspect any security lapses.
 
Do not gather, handle, store, use or share personal data unless that information is really needed and you are allowed to by law. Inform individuals why you are collecting their personal information.
Check the DP Manual whether an individual’s permission, before using or sharing personal information,
is necessary.
Ask for advice from your DP Focal  Point or the DP Advisor in your legal department before transferring personal data to someone in another country.
Observe legal restrictions on the transfer of personal data.
Do not keep personal information longer than necessary, and then securely delete, destroy it or make it anonymous.

CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Do you understand the DP laws and Shell’s internal privacy rules?
Are you allowed to collect, use, and store or share this information?
Have you told the individual why you are collecting this information?
Did you obtain the individual’s permission to use or share this information?
 
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
     
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT
ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES
 HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
3   RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Records are valuable company assets and must be properly managed. Shell must be able to retrieve Records quickly and reliably. When a Record’s retention period is over, appropriate disposal is required.

A Record contains information that is evidence of a business activity or required for legal, tax, regulatory and accounting purposes or is important to Shell business or corporate memory. It is the content which determines a Record not its format. Records include contracts; audit reports;
financial information; product specifications; corporate policies, guidelines and procedures; minutes of meetings.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must understand which information is a Record which must, therefore, be properly managed and which must be disposed
of when no longer of value. Failure to manage Records effectively can lead to significant business risks that may have negative financial, competitive, reputation, compliance and regulatory consequences and can breach legal, accounting, tax and regulatory requirements. Individuals must manage their Records in accordance with the Group Records Management Standard and  Guidelines.
 
THE PRINCIPLES
All individuals must manage their Records in accordance with the Group Records Management Standard
and Guidelines.


CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Do you know what your Records are and how to identify, classify and store them?
Are your Records protected from unauthorised access or interference?
Have you preserved all information relevant to actual or anticipated litigation, regulatory investigation or tax audit?
Have you transferred custody of the relevant Records when changing role?
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
COMMUNICATIONS  Your communications are a reflection
on Shell. Ensure your communications
are necessary and appropriate. Ensure you adhere to all rules and follow
all guidelines. Failure to safeguard information can damage Shell’s reputation and its ability to conduct business  effectively.

Inappropriate, inaccurate or careless communication can create serious reputation, liability and compliance risks for you and Shell.

Communications

1   BUSINESS  COMMUNICATIONS
 
The Business Communications Standard sets the principles and the rules for all communication by Shell staff within Shell or with third parties. The Standard applies to every kind of correspondence including mail, electronic documents, instant messages, websites, social media tools, postings on the Shell Global Networks (Sitescape), paper documents, facsimile,
voice and voice mail recordings. For certain media such as email or social media, additional guidelines apply.

YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must observe the Business Communications Standard. Failure to do so may damage the reputation of Shell. Failure to comply with mandatory rules may result in disciplinary or legal action.

THE PRINCIPLES
In your business communications:
–   do not mislead;
–   do not write speculative opinions;
–   do not exaggerate;
–   do not engage in ‘casual conversation’ on sensitive or confidential matters; and
–   do not joke about serious matters.
State which Shell company the communication is coming from.
 
Follow all relevant standards and guideline. In particular:
–   follow the Group Disclosure Standard when publicly disclosing information;
–   classify communications according to the Group Information Classification System Levels and if required encrypt your correspondence;
–   remember that communications with  a competitor can violate antitrust laws;
–   if you are handling personal data ensure you comply with Shell’s Privacy Rules;
–   ensure that exports or imports of information to or from other
countries are not prohibited and  that appropriate licences have been
obtained where required by law; and
–   make sure you have read the additional media guidelines
e.g. on social media and email.

CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Would you be comfortable if this communication appeared in the public domain?
Would you be comfortable if this was used as evidence in legal proceedings?
Is this communication lawful?
Do you need to make this communication?
What is the best way to communicate?
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
Communications

2   PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

 
Any written or oral communication made publicly on behalf of Shell is a public disclosure. Listed companies like Shell must provide the public with information
about its business and finances. Information disclosed must be true, accurate, consistent and not misleading.
 
YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
You must not make public disclosures about Shell’s business activities if you are not authorised to do so. You must protect confidential information. If you are authorised to disclose information you must ensure it is true, accurate, consistent and not misleading. Ensure that Shell’s financial records fairly refl  transactions that you are responsible for and Shell’s fi    position.
You must follow Shell disclosure policies before making public disclosures. You must not engage with the media without clearance from Shell’s media relations
professionals and you must not engage with the investment community without clearance from Shell’s investor relations professionals.
Misleading the public can be a regulatory offence. Inaccurate and delayed information disclosure can damage Shell’s reputation and affect its share price. Shell and the individuals involved could face investigation, prosecution, suspension and fines.
WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
 
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
     
HONESTY      INTEGRITY      RESPECT
ECONOMIC COMPETITION BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLITICAL  ACTIVITIES
HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE

THE PRINCIPLES
Ensure public disclosures are true, accurate, consistent and not misleading.
Protect confidential information.
Comply with the Disclosure Standard and only make public disclosures if you are authorised to do so.
Report the loss or theft of Shell information to your line manager or supervisor.
Follow applicable procedures if you believe you hold price-sensitive information about Shell.
Comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
Do not engage with the media or the investor community unless the required clearances have been obtained.
 
CHALLENGE YOURSELF
Is your information true and accurate?
Have you obtained clearance from media relations and investor relations  professionals?
Do you possess price-sensitive information? Have you told the whole story?
 WHERE YOU CAN FIND OUT MORE AND TELL SHELL
sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/areas/index.html sww.shell.com/ethicsandcompliance/report_concerns/global_helpline.html
Shell General Business Principles
Living by our Principles
Our shared core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people underpin all the work we do and are the foundation of
our Business Principles.
The Business Principles apply to all transactions, large or small, and drive the behaviour expected of every employee in every Shell company in the conduct of its business at all times.
We are judged by how we act.
Our reputation will be upheld if we act in accordance with the law and the Business Principles. We encourage our business partners to live by them or by equivalent principles.
It is the responsibility of management to lead by example, to ensure that all
employees are aware of these principles, and behave in accordance with the spirit as well as with the letter of this statement.
The application of these principles is underpinned by a comprehensive set of assurance procedures, which are designed to make sure that our employees understand the principles and confirm that they act
in accordance with them.
As part of the assurance system, it is also the responsibility of management to provide employees with safe and confidential channels to raise concerns and report instances of non-compliance. In turn, it is  the responsibility of Shell employees to report suspected breaches of the Business Principles to Shell.
The Business Principles have for many years been fundamental to how we conduct our business and living by them is crucial to
our continued success.
 
Our Values
Shell employees share a set of core values
– honesty, integrity and respect for people. We also firmly believe in the fundamental importance of trust, openness, teamwork and professionalism, and pride in what we do.
Sustainable Development
As part of the Business Principles, we commit  to contribute to sustainable development. This requires balancing short- and long-term interests, integrating economic, environmental and social considerations into business decision-making.
Responsibilities
Shell companies recognise five areas of responsibility. It is the duty of management continuously to assess the priorities and discharge these inseparable responsibilities on the basis of that assessment.

a.  To shareholders
To protect shareholders’ investment, and provide a long-term return competitive with those of other leading companies in the industry.

b.  To customers
To win and maintain customers by developing and providing products and services which offer value in terms of price, quality, safety and environmental impact, which are supported by the requisite technological, environmental and commercial expertise.

c.  To employees
To respect the human rights of our employees and to provide them with good and safe working conditions, and competitive terms and conditions of employment.
To promote the development and best use of the talents of our employees; to create an inclusive work environment where every
employee has an equal opportunity to develop his or her skills and talents. To encourage the involvement of employees in the planning and direction of their work; to provide them with channels to report concerns.
We recognise that commercial success depends on the full commitment of
all employees.
 
d.  To those with whom we do business To seek mutually benefi   relationships with contractors, suppliers and in joint ventures
and to promote the application of these Shell
General Business Principles or equivalent principles in such relationships. The ability to promote these principles effectively will be an important factor in the decision to enter into or remain in such relationships.

e.  To society
To conduct business as responsible corporate members of society, to comply with applicable laws and regulations, to support fundamental human rights in line with the legitimate role of business, and to give proper regard to health, safety, security and the environment.
 
Shell General Business Principles

Principle 1: Economic
Long-term profi is essential to achieving our business goals and to our continued growth. It is a measure both of efficiency and of the value that customers place on Shell products and services. It supplies the necessary corporate resources for the continuing investment that is required to develop and produce future energy supplies to meet customer needs. Without profits and a strong financial foundation, it would not be possible to fulfil our responsibilities.
Criteria for investment and divestment decisions include sustainable development considerations (economic, social and environmental) and an appraisal of
the risks of the investment.
Principle 2: Competition
Shell companies support free enterprise. We seek to compete fairly and ethically and within the framework of applicable competition laws; we will not prevent others from competing freely with us.
Principle 3: Business Integrity
Shell companies insist on honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of our business and expect the same in our relationships with all those with whom we do business. The direct or indirect offer, payment, soliciting or acceptance of bribes in any form is unacceptable. Facilitation payments are also bribes and must not be made. Employees must avoid conflicts of interest between  their private activities and their part in the conduct of company business. Employees must also declare to their employing company potential conflicts of interest. All business transactions on behalf of a Shell company must be reflected accurately and fairly in the accounts of the company in accordance with established procedures and are subject to audit and disclosure.
 
Principle 4: Political Activities
a)  Of companies
Shell companies act in a socially responsible manner within the laws of the countries in which we operate in pursuit of our legitimate commercial objectives.
Shell companies do not make payments  to political parties, organisations or their representatives. Shell companies do not take part in party politics. However, when
dealing with governments, Shell companies have the right and the responsibility to make our position known on any matters, which affect us, our employees, our customers, our shareholders or local communities in a manner, which is in accordance with our values and the Business Principles.

b)  Of employees
Where individuals wish to engage in activities in the community, including standing for election to public office, they will be given the opportunity to do so where this is appropriate in the light of local circumstances.
 
Principle 5: Health, Safety, Security and the Environment
Shell companies have a systematic approach to health, safety, security and environmental management in order to achieve  continuous performance improvement.
To this end, Shell companies manage these matters as critical business activities, set standards and targets for improvement, and measure, appraise and report performance externally.
We continually look for ways to reduce
the environmental impact of our operations, products and services.
Principle 6: Local Communities
Shell companies aim to be good neighbours by continuously improving the ways in which we contribute directly or indirectly to the general wellbeing of the communities within which we work.
We manage the social impacts of our business activities carefully and work with others to enhance the benefits to local communities, and to mitigate any negative impacts from our activities.
In addition, Shell companies take a constructive interest in societal matters, directly or indirectly related to our business.
 
Principle 7: Communication and Engagement
Shell companies recognise that regular dialogue and engagement with our stakeholders is essential. We are committed to reporting of our performance by providing full relevant information to legitimately interested parties, subject to any overriding considerations of business confidentiality.
In our interactions with employees, business partners and local communities, we seek to listen and respond to them honestly and responsibly.
Principle 8: Compliance
We comply with all applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate.
 
Glossary
Charitable donations
Anything of value given to a charitable organisation; or sponsorship that is given without charge to a charity; or any community development expenditure.
Code of Conduct
Values, ethics, rules and principles describing the behaviour expected of you and what you can expect of Shell.
Competitor
A company in the same industry offering a similar product or service.
Compliance Officer
Monitors compliance activities including incidents and business risk.
Confidential business information
Information and data that must be protected and not shared with any unauthorised party.
Customers
Clients and buyers of Shell products and services.
Facilitation payment
Payment made to speed up an administrative process.
Government official
Employee of any government (local or national); or of a company wholly or partially controlled by government; or an offi    of a political party; or employee of an international organisation; or immediate family member of any of these.
Inappropriate gift
Gift offered or received of an unacceptable value, inappropriate nature or in unacceptable circumstances.
Intellectual  property
Includes patent rights; utility models; trademarks and service marks; domain names; copyright (including copyright of software); design rights; database extraction rights; rights in know-how or other
confi   (sometimes called ‘trade secret’ or ‘proprietary’) information; and rights under IP-related agreements.
Items of nominal value
Items of insignifi  value e.g. conference pen; cup of coffee.
 

Joint venture
A legal entity formed between Shell and other parties to undertake a business activity together.
Partner
A supplier, customer, agent, or any party involved in any joint venture with Shell.
Restrictions or prohibitions
Limits that govern what can and cannot be done e.g. the kinds of goods that are allowed into a country.
Social performance
How Shell manages the impact of its business on the communities and societies in which it operates.
Shell core values
Honesty, integrity and respect for people.
Shell General Business Principles
Govern how Shell companies conduct their affairs.
Shell Global Helpline
Available to all employees for reporting or receiving advice on legal and ethical non-compliance incidents, dilemmas and concerns.
Stakeholder
Person, group, organisation or system that has a vested interest in Shell business.
Supervisor
The person who has the authority to give you instructions and/or orders.
Value limits
Acceptable value of gift, hospitality or entertainment that can be received or offered.
 
Shell Code of Ethics
Region: WEOG
Country: Netherlands
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

The SGBP has been adopted by all Shell companies and, amongst other things, provides that all persons must avoid conflicts of interest between their private financial activities and their part in the conduct of company business.
This Code is specifically intended to meet the requirements of Section 406 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act and the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange by providing for a number of implementing requirements in the area of disclosure controls and the avoidance of conflicts of interest by the category of job holders and persons referred to below.
This Code is applicable to the following job holders and persons:
    the Executive Directors of Royal Dutch Shell;
    the Chief Financial Officer;
    the Executive Vice President – Controller;
    the Executive Vice President – Treasury and Corporate Finance;
    the Chief Internal Auditor;
    the Executive Vice President - Taxation;
    the Executive Vice President - Investor Relations;
    the Executive Vice President - Strategy & Planning;
    the Executive Vice President - Finance Trading;
    the Executive Vice President - Finance Operations;
    the Executive Vice Presidents - Finance of Upstream International, Upstream Americas, Downstream and Projects & Technology;
    any person or job holder designated by the Chief Financial Officer (a register of such designated persons will be maintained by the Company Secretary). 
All of the above are hereinafter referred to as "COE Addressees".
Key Requirements
Each COE Addressee shall:
    a. act in accordance with the highest standards of honesty, integrity and fairness and expect the same in their relationships with others while maintaining a work and business climate fostering such standards; and
    b. adhere to the SGBP, any applicable code of conduct on dealing in securities and any provisions for the avoidance of conflicts of interest stipulated in applicable terms and conditions of employment; and
    c. excuse himself from making any decision about an issue at hand in which a conflict of interests arises or could arise and in such event, disclose in writing the relevant facts and explain the circumstances that create or could create the conflicts of interest to: (a) the chairman of the Audit Committee in the case of: (i) the Executive Directors of Royal Dutch Shell, (ii) the Chief Financial Officer, (iii) the Chief Internal Auditor and (iv) the Executive Vice President Controller, and (b) to the Executive Vice President Controller, in the case of any other COE Addressee; and
    d. avoid having any financial interest in works of or contracts awarded by a Shell company or a company associated with a Shell company, or in supplies effected or services rendered to or by such a company and where this is unavoidable or immediate family members have such a financial interest, such interest shall be disclosed in writing in the same manner as set out in c. above; and
    e. not seek or accept from third parties to his own advantage any favour in whatsoever form or howsoever described in connection with the business of any Shell company or his duties (except for the acceptance of such things as gifts of nominal value and working lunches, dinners and entertainment of reasonable value, frequency and duration, appropriate under the circumstances, and subject always to the standards of a. above); and
    f. not hold positions or jobs or engage in outside businesses or other interests that adversely impact the performance of duties owed to any Shell company or the interests of the same; and
    g. avoid any relationship with a contractor or supplier that could compromise the ability to transact business on a professional, impartial and competitive basis or influence decisions to be made by any Shell company; and
    h. consistent with the scope of his job responsibilities, ensure full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in regulatory filings and in other public communications made by Royal Dutch Shell.
Reporting
Each COE Addressee shall report any breach thereof in writing to: (a) the chairman of the Audit Committee in the case of: (i) the Executive Directors of Royal Dutch Shell, (ii) the Chief Financial Officer, (iii) the Chief Internal Auditor and (iv) the Executive Vice President-Controller, and (b) the Executive Vice President Controller in the case of any other COE Addressee.
No person reporting in good faith a suspected breach of conflicts of interest should be concerned about retaliation by Shell companies. Any job holder or person involved in retaliation will be subject to the sanctions referred to below.
Accountability
Each COE Addressee is held accountable for the full compliance with this Code with respect to any issues within his control.  Sanctions for a breach of this Code shall be determined by: (i) the Board of Directors of Royal Dutch Shell where it concerns the Executive Directors of Royal Dutch Shell or the Chief Financial Officer; and (ii) the Audit Committee where it concerns any other COE Addressee.  Sanctions may include serious disciplinary action, removal from office and dismissal as well as other remedies, all to the extent permitted by law and as appropriate under the circumstances.
Miscellaneous and Waivers
No waiver of any provision of this Code shall be valid unless provided in writing by the chairman of the Audit Committee and with the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
In this code words importing the masculine shall include the feminine and words importing the singular shall include the plural or vice versa.
The provisions of this Code can be amended and supplemented from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors of Royal Dutch Shell.
Acknowledgement for receipt and acceptance:
Name: ..........................................
Position: .......................................
Place and Date: ............................
Showa Denko
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Japan
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS & CONDUCT


Our Code of Conduct and Its Practical Guide  

1)      Understanding and complying with laws and regulations, and internal rules  

We understand and comply with laws and regulations, agreements, internal rules and proper procedures that pertain to our work. We also monitor any changes in these laws and regulations, agreements, internal rules, and procedures.  

2)   Providing guidance to subordinates regarding laws and regulations and internal rules  

Managers must guide their subordinates on a daily basis, encouraging them to comply with relevant laws and regulations, agreements, and internal rules.  

3)   Corporate and individual ethics  

We base our activities on corporate and individual ethics.  

4)    Reporting on violations  

Employees who notice any violation of laws and regulations, intern al rules, or corporate ethics within the Group must immediately y report the case to their supervisors or through the channels  established by the company.  

5)   Internal control over financial reporting  

We establish and operate appropriate internal control systems for maintaining reliability of our financial reporting.  

6)   Financial and accounting records  

We keep financial and accounting records and report them in an accurate and timely manner.  

7)   Managing corporate assets  

We manage our corporate assets in an appropriate manner.  

8)    Contracts  

We document contracts and check their contents together with the other party.  

9)    Recording transactions  

We manage transaction records in an accurate and orderly manner. We do not improperly change their contents or make false records.  

10) Managing confidential information  

1 We will act with integrity as a responsible citizen of the international society.  

(1) We will act in strict compliance with laws and regulations and according to high ethical standards.

We carefully manage confidential documents (electronic or printed) to prevent leakage of confidential information.  

11) Managing other parties confidential information  

We appropriately manage confidential information we receive from other parties to prevent leakage of confidential information.  

12) Managing customer information and personal information  

We strictly manage personal information and customer information, and will use it only for appropriate business purposes.  

13) Information disclosure  

We disclose information concerning the Group in an appropriate and timely manner so that stakeholders can correctly evaluate its impact.  

14) Prohibition of insider trading  

We do not buy or sell shares based on non-disclosed information (material fact) that is only known to insiders.  

15) Maintaining transparency  

We ensure that all activities of the Group that may affect society and the environment are transparent so that our stakeholders can understand what we are doing.  

16) Not associating with antisocial organizations  

We refuse to have any association with antisocial organizations or persons who may pose a threat to sound social order and safety. We reject all unreasonable demands in a firm and uncompromising manner.  

17) Inappropriate favours  

We do not give or receive inappropriate favours in our relations with particular customers/suppliers.  

18) Gratuitous offers  

When it is necessary to give a donation or a farewell gift, or make other r payments for which no compensation is asked, we first obtain the approval of the department manager, etc. and observe relevant laws and regulations.  

19) Association, entertainment, and giving/receiving gifts  

We associate with, entertain, and give gifts to customers only after fully analyzing its need.  

20) Appropriate tax payment  

We understand the details of the tax system, and pay taxes in an appropriate manner.  

21) Security export control  

We observe laws and regulations and internal rules regarding security export control, and follow proper procedures.  

22) Appropriate customs procedures  

We follow import/export procedures and pay taxes in an appropriate manner.



23) Respect for other parties intellectual property rights  

We respect other parties’ intellectual property rights and strictly avoid any infringement.  

24) Strategic acquisition and utilization of intellectual property rights  

We strategically acquire intellectual property rights for the Group and effectively use them.  

25) Outsourced workforce  

We observe laws and regulations concerning outsourced workforce, including workers of contractors and dispatched workers, and ensure proper working conditions.  

26) Traffic safety  

We observe traffic rules and ensure safe driving. 
  

1)    Promoting Responsible Care  

As an expert in chemistry, we make the most of useful properties of chemical substances and work to reduce their risks.  

2)   Compliance relating to product safety  

We understand and comply with laws and regulations at home and abroad and internal rules concerning product safety, offering safe products, technologies, and services.  

3)   Labelling concerning product safety  

We provide accurate labelling for our products to ensure safety.  

4)   Quality assurance and quality control  

We ensure systematic and stringent quality assurance and quality control throughout    the Group.    

1)      Compliance with competition laws at home  

We observe competition laws of the country in which we operate and ensure fair trade.  

2)   Compliance with competition laws of foreign countries  

We observe the competition laws of foreign countries and ensure fair trade.  

3)   Strict prohibition of cartels  

We do not take part in a cartel.    We avoid any act that may cause suspicion.  

1 We will act with integrity as a responsible citizen of the international society.  

(2) We will promote Responsible Care programs.  

1 We will act with integrity as a responsible citizen of the international society.  

(3) We will conduct business based on the principle of fair and free competition.

4)    Accurate presentations  

We make presentations of our products and services clearly and exactly in catalogues, pamphlets, and other literature.  

5)    Accurate explanation  

We communicate facts accurately when recommending or explaining our products to customers.  

6)    Selecting suppliers  

In selecting suppliers, we adopt an open-door policy.  We make a decision after comparing all candidates in a fair manner.  

7)    Fair trade  

We conduct transactions with companies in developing countries continuously and at proper prices to help establish economic independence of those countries.    

1)      Raising awareness of human rights  

We raise our awareness of human rights and act with respect for human rights both inside and outside the company.  

2)   Prohibition of discrimination  

We prohibit any discrimination based on nationality, race, ancestry, gender, age, disability, HIV status, viral hepatitis and other infections, religious or political belief, or for other reasons.  

3)      Prohibition of sexual harassment and bullying  

We prohibit sexual harassment, bullying, and any other forms of human right infringement that adversely affect our working environment.  

4)      Prohibition of discrimination in recruitment and treatment  

We prohibit all kinds of discrimination in the recruitment, promotion, or treatment of employees, and make a judgment based solely on the ability and performance of each employee.  

5)      Child labor and forced labor  

We refuse human right infringement  in the form of unfair labor, including child labor and forced  labor.  

6)      Human rights in supply chains  

In selecting suppliers, we seriously consider how human rights are respected at each supplier and its own suppliers, and call for improvement if any problem is found.  

7)   Human rights due diligence  

We ensure that our corporate activities do not have an adverse impact on human rights.  

1 We will act with integrity as a responsible citizen of the international society.  

(4) We will respect human rights.


1)    Preventing corruption  

We prohibit any act leading to corruption, such as giving, accepting, or demanding bribes.  

2)   Entertainment for public servants  

We do not, in principle, give entertainment or gift s to government officials, or other public servants in a similar position. When necessary, such entertainment or gifts may be offered in compliance with laws and regulations and internal rules.  

1)    R&D for creating new value  

We develop new technologies and propose new value, based on understanding and anticipation of social needs and through appropriate marketing activities.  

2)   Individualized products and technologies  

We develop and offer Individualized products an d technologies, and work to establish original business models.  

3)   Development of innovative technologies  

We develop innovative technologies that challenge the status quo, realizing innovations in manufacturing methods and equipment through drastic improvements or changes in raw materials, catalysts, and processes.  

4)    Production technologies  

We value basic technologies we have accumulated.  

  

2 We will provide our customers with satisfaction and safety.  

(1) We will develop and provide Individualized products, technologies, and services that satisfy our customers and promote the sound growth of international society.  

1 We will act with integrity as a responsible citizen of the international society.  

(5) We will work to prevent bribery and other forms of corruption.  

2 We will provide our customers with satisfaction and safety.  

(2) We will ensure stable supply of products that meet customers’ expectations, in cooperation with our business partners.



1)    Cost improvements  

We strive to lower costs by various means to offer our products, technologies, and services at reasonable prices.  

2)   Information on non-conformance  

We quickly notify relevant organizations within the company, customers, and consumers in the event of non-conformance in our products or services.  

3)      Preventing the recurrence of accidents and problems  

If an accident or a problem involving a product or service occurs, we investigate its cause and accumulate data to prevent its recurrence.  

4)    Stable supply  

We ensure safe and stable operation of plants in cooperation with our business partners to guarantee a stable supply of products.  

5)    CSR procurement  

We promote CSR procurement and contribute to sustainable growth of society in cooperation with our business partners.  

1)   Respect for individuality  

We create and maintain a comfortable working environment for employees with different personalities.  

2)   Respect for different cultures  

We respect the thoughts, creed, customs, and religion of each employee.  

3)      Promoting the employment of people with disabilities  

We promote the employment of people with disabilities, and create and maintain a working environment where they can fully exhibit their abilities.  

4)    Free and flexible thinking  

We embrace free and flexible thinking beyond the scope of traditions and customs.  

5)      Improving operational efficiency through the PDCA cycle  

We run the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle to improve the level of operations.  

6)   Communication at workplace  

We create and maintain a working environment where employees in each workplace can develop a  

3 We will develop corporate culture that helps every member of the Group to fully display his/her ability.  

(1) We will create new values based on mutual respect for personality, free thinking, and constructive discussions.


Trustful, cooperative, and stimulating relationship through positive communication.  

7)   Voluntary improvement activities  

We actively take part in voluntary improvement activities to have our own opinions reflected in the continuous improvement of workplace.  

8) Labor-management relations  

We respect freedom of association and basic labor rights, and promote constructive exchanges of opinions between labor and management.  

9)   Work-life balance  

We promote mutual understanding and cooperation so that employees can maintain the balance  between work and such personal needs as child rearing and nursing care.  

10) Business etiquette  

We develop a favorable relationship with others by respecting business etiquette.  

1)   Compliance with safety rules  

We understand and comply with laws and regulations, rules, and procedures concerning safety.  

2)      Safe handling of chemical substances  

We handle chemical substances in a proper and safe manner in full knowledge of relevant laws and regulations and safety information.  

3)    Safety activities  

We actively promote safety activities to achieve goals under Responsible Care action plans and proactive safety initiatives.  

4)   Raising awareness of safety  

We raise our awareness of safety by taking steps based on prediction of risks, ac cumulating and sharing information on close calls, and issuing mutual warning against unsafe actions.  

5)    Safety training  

We ensure that employees receive sufficient safety education, training, and guidance and acquire necessary knowledge and skills on safety.  

6)    Risk assessment and improvement  

We identify unsafe facilities and operations and improve them in order of priority.  

3 We will develop corporate culture that helps every member of the Group to fully display his/her ability.  

(2) We will give the highest priority to safety, and strive to maintain and  improve the working environment.



7)   Prior review of construction and modification of production facilities  

We carefully check, in advance, plans for construction and modification of production facilities.  

8)   Maintenance of production facilities  

We ensure that production facilities are properly maintained.  

9)    Emergency response procedures  

We check emergency response procedures at the ti me of an accident, disaster, or environmental abnormality, and conduct training.  

10) Comfortable working environment  

We create and maintain a clean and orderly working environment.  

11) Health care  

We pay attention to our daily health care so that we can fully exhibit our abilities.  

1)   Communication with local communities  

As a member of the local community, we actively promote open communication with the residents.  

2)   Understanding local communities  

We understand and respect the culture, religion, history, customs, and other characteristics of each local community.  

3)   Providing information to local communities  

We strive to provide accurate information to local communities to enhance their understanding of the Group.  

4)      Notification of accident to local communities  

In the event of a danger to the safety or the environment of surrounding areas, we will immediately notify relevant local communities through an appropriate route.  

5)   Participating in local activities  

We actively participate in volunteer activities, cultural events, recreation, and other local activities as a member of the local community.  

  
4 We will meet the expectations of local communities.  

(1) We will disclose accurate information on our activities in a timely manner to the countries and local communities in which we operate, so as to maintain good communication and promote mutual understanding.  

4 We will meet the expectations of local communities.  

(2) We will grow with the countries and local communities in which we operate, and contribute to their social and economic growth.


1)   Contributing to the development of local communities  

We contribute to the sustainable growth of local communities.  

2)    Creating employment  

We strive to create jobs for local communities by expanding our operations.  

3)   Contributing in the area of education  

We support education in local communities by making the most of the Group’s strengths.  

1)   Environmental protection efforts  

We make strenuous efforts to protect the environment, aiming to achieve goals under Responsible Care action plans and proactive safety initiatives.  
2)    Environmental compliance  

We understand and comply with laws and regulations, ordinances, and rules pertaining to the environment and chemical substances.  

3)      Reducing the amount of chemical substances discharged  

We strive to reduce the amount of chemical substances discharged.  

4)      Reducing waste, achieving zero emissions  

We promote three Rs (reduce, re use, and recycle) in our business activities with the aim of  achieving zero emissions.  

5)   Combating climate change  

We promote energy conservation and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as a way to help combat climate change.  

6)   Promoting conservation of biodiversity  

We monitor the impact of our business activities on biodiversity, and strive to reduce the impact.  

7)      Environmental protection efforts in supply chains  

In selecting suppliers, we seriously consider how environmental protection efforts are made a teach supplier and its own suppliers, and call for improvement if any problem is found.  

  
5 We will make vigorous efforts to maintain and improve the global environment.  

(1) We will reduce environmental impact of our business activities, and contribute toward the mitigation of climate change and the conservation of biological diversity.  

5 We will make vigorous efforts to maintain and improve the global environment.  

(2) We will develop and provide environment-friendly products and technologies.

1)   Developing environment-friendly products and services  

We promote the development of products that will contribute to solving environmental problems.  

2)   Developing and providing environment-friendly technologies  

We develop technologies that contribute toward protecting the global environment.    In addition to using those technologies within the Group, we offer them to the outside.  

3)    R&D and environmental considerations  

When planning and implementing R&D for a particular product, we fully consider its impact on the global environment.  

Note: Our Code of Conduct and Its Practical Guide represent the Showa Denko Group’s basic concept of social responsibility.      In taking action, please make sure that you fully comply with laws and regulations of the country in which your company operates as well as your company’s policy and internal rules.
Sibur Holding Code of Conduct
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Russia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

APPROVED
by the Board of Directors of OJSC «SIBUR Holding» September 6, 2012
(Minutes No. 158)
CODE
OF CORPORATE CONDUCT OF OJSC «SIBUR Holding»
(version No. 4)
Moscow 2012
1.  General Provisions
This Code of Corporate Conduct of OJSC «SIBUR Holding» (hereafter, the "Code") was drafted in accordance with the applicable laws of the Russian Federation, the Charter of OJSC «SIBUR Holding» (hereafter, the "Company"), generally accepted principles of corporate conduct and conditions of activities of the Company.
This Code is intended to ensure the provision by the Company of conditions for the effective implementation by the shareholders of their rights and legitimate interests, transparency of the decision-making process, information openness, as well as effective activities of the Company and its investment attractiveness, including the increase in the value of net assets of the Company and maintaining financial stability and profitability of the Company.
With the development of its corporate governance practices, the Company will seek to improve the principles of its corporate governance and provisions contained in this Code.

2.  General Principles of Corporate Conduct
The Company will seek to improve its corporate governance in accordance with the principles that ensure the following:
Real opportunity of shareholders to exercise their rights related to participation in the Company;
Equal treatment of the Company's shareholders, including minority shareholders, and protection of their rights;
Strategic management of the Company by the Board of Directors and its effective control over the activities of executive bodies of the Company, as well as the accountability of the Board of Directors to the General Shareholders' Meeting;
Implementation by the executive bodies of the Company of the effective management of its current activities in a reasonable manner, in good faith and solely in the interests of the Company, and their accountability to the General Shareholders' Meeting and the Board of Directors;
Timely disclosure of reliable information about the Company in order to enable informed decision-making by the shareholders of the Company and investors to the extent provided by applicable laws, the Charter and internal documents of the Company ;
Effective control over the financial and business activities of the Company, including in order to ensure the rights and legitimate interests of the shareholders;
Active cooperation of the Company with the investors, creditors and other interested parties in order to increase the net assets of the Company, the value of shares and other securities of the Company.
The Company recognizes the importance of improving the corporate governance of its subsidiary and dependent companies, and will seek to ensure the openness and transparency of the activities of the said companies, as well as practical implementation in their activities of the general principles of this Code.

3.  Corporate Governance Structure of the Company
The corporate governance of the Company shall be carried out by the General Shareholders' Meeting, the Board of Directors, the Management Board and the One-person Executive Body of the Company.
Subject to a resolution of the General Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company, the powers of the One-person Executive Body of the Company may be transferred to a management organization.
 
4.  Shareholders of the Company
The shareholders of the Company have the aggregate of rights with regard to the Company, the observance and implementation of which shall be ensured by the Board of Directors and the executive bodies of the Company.
The shareholders shall be provided with reliable and effective ways to record their title to the shares, as well as the opportunity of a free and prompt disposal of shares at their sole discretion and other actions with their shares, which are not contrary to the law and do not violate the rights and legally protected interests of other parties.
The Company shall facilitate the provision of these rights, including by the fact that the registration of title, record-keeping and maintenance of the register of shareholders of the Company shall be provided by the registrar with the appropriate technical equipment and control systems and impeccable reputation in the securities market.
The shareholders may participate in the management of the Company by attending the General Shareholders' Meetings held in the form of concurrent attendance and in the form of voting in absentia, and by adopting the resolutions on the matters in the agenda of the General Shareholders' Meetings. To ensure the appropriate observance and protection of the said right, the Company shall have the Regulations of the General Shareholders' Meeting approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Company, which, in particular, include the following provisions:
The procedure for notifying the shareholders of the Company about the General Shareholders' Meeting that provides for advance sending of a notice of a meeting by the registrar;
Enabling shareholders owning no less than one (1) percent of the shares of the Company to review the list of persons entitled to participate in the General Shareholders' Meeting within the time frames established by law for providing the shareholders with materials on matters in the agenda of the meeting;
Determining the place of the General Shareholders' Meeting in order to enable the shareholders to participate in such meeting, and specifying such place in the notice of the meeting;
The shareholders owning in aggregate no less than ten (10) percent of the voting shares of the Company may request to convene a General Shareholders' Meeting, and the shareholders owning in aggregate no less than two (2) percent of the voting shares of the Company may submit proposals for the agenda of the General Shareholders' Meeting and nominate candidates to the Board of Directors and the Audit Commission of the Company. When using the aforementioned rights, the documents confirming the existence of such rights for the shareholders shall be the notarized (and in the event of documents in a foreign language and in accordance with foreign law, duly legalized) copies of documents confirming the authority of the person signing the corresponding request or proposal, and when the shares are recorded in a securities account, the original of the statement for the relevant account.
The shareholders shall have the right to receive a part of the net profit of the Company in the form of dividends. The Company shall seek to ensure that the procedure for determining the amount of the dividends and procedure for their payment fully conform to the interests of shareholders.
The shareholders shall have the right to receive regular and timely information on the activities of the Company to the extent provided by applicable laws, the Charter and internal documents of the Company.
To ensure the appropriate observance and implementation of the said right, the Company shall guarantee the following:
Compliance with the requirements on the disclosure of information established by the applicable laws;
Providing the shareholders with the necessary information on each matter in the agenda during the preparation for the General Shareholders' Meeting along with an indication to which matter in the agenda they refer;
In a timely manner, no less than twenty (20 ) days, and in the event of a General Shareholders' Meeting where the agenda includes a question of reorganization of the Company, no later than 30 (thirty) days prior to the General Shareholders' Meeting (or a deadline for acceptance of ballots), providing shareholders with an opportunity to review the materials on matters in the agenda;
Providing within two (2) business days, upon the request of a shareholder, copies of all materials on matters in the agenda of the General Shareholders' Meeting, and providing, under agreement with the shareholder, the materials via e-mail;
Preparing the annual report of the Company in accordance with the applicable laws and in a form that allows the evaluation of the results of Company activities for the financial year, including a copy of the annual financial statements, the findings of the Audit Commission and the report of the Auditor of the Company;
Availability of the Secretary of the Board of Directors, whose functions shall include the provision of shareholders' access to information on the Company;
Posting of information disclosed by the Company in accordance with the applicable laws of the Russian Federation, and other information about the Company on the official website (page) of the Company.
The shareholder(s) of the Company, owning in aggregate no less than twenty-five (25) percent of the voting shares of the Company, as well as his (their) authorized representatives may obtain from the Company the documents and information that must be provided to the members of the Board of Directors and the members of the Audit Commission of the Company, and also have the right of access to other documents of the Company in accordance with clause 1 of Article 91 of the Federal Law "On Joint-Stock Companies" and the Charter of the Company and other internal documents of the Company.
The shareholders should not abuse their rights. No acts of the shareholders intended solely to cause harm to other shareholders or the Company and no abuse of rights in any other form shall be permitted.

5.  Board of Directors of the Company
5.1.    General Provisions
The Board of Directors of the Company shall carry out the general management of the Company, aimed at maintaining and increasing the value of shares and the net assets of the Company, and realization by the shareholders of their rights.
The Board of Directors shall proceed from the need to act fairly with regard to all shareholders and consider their interests when adopting the resolutions. The Board of Directors shall ensure the establishment of a system for identifying and resolving potential conflicts of interest.
The Board of Directors of the Company shall ensure the appropriate functioning of the system for disclosure and distribution of information about the Company.
The Board of Directors of the Company shall ensure the formation and implementation of the development strategy of the Company.
The Board of Directors of the Company shall establish and maintain the necessary controls over the activities of executive bodies of the Company, including monitoring and evaluation of its results.
The Board of Directors of the Company shall develop a transparent system for evaluation of its activities in general and for each member of the Board of Directors separately, as well as a transparent system of remuneration and compensation of expenses of the members of the Board of Directors related to the performance of their functions, and shall submit them to the General Shareholders' Meeting for approval.
5.2.    Members of the Board of Directors of the Company
The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall head the Board of Directors of the Company and shall be responsible for organizing the work of the Board of Directors of the Company.
The number of members on the Board of Directors of the Company must ensure its efficient operation, combine the representatives of different groups of shareholders and consider different interests and points of view when adopting its resolutions.
The number of members on the Board of Directors of the Company shall be determined by the General Shareholders' Meeting, but must be no less than seven ( 7 ) members.
To ensure the objectivity of adopted resolutions and a balance between the interests of different groups of shareholders, the Company will seek to ensure that the Board of Directors of the Company includes no less than one (1 ) independent director.
A member of the Board of Directors of the Company shall be independent if he:
       during the last five (5) years, has not been an official (manager) or employee of the Company, the management organization, shareholders of the Company that are affiliates of the Company, and/or its subsidiary and dependent companies;
       during the last three (3) years, has not been a major counterparty of the Company (a counterparty that has an aggregate volume of transactions with the Company during the year in the amount of ten (10) percent or more of the book value of Company's assets);
       has not received and is not receiving any remuneration for the provision of services to the Company and management organization, excluding remuneration for activities as a member of the Board of Directors;
       is not an official of another business entity where any of the officials of the Company is a member of the Human Resources and Remunerations  Committee of the Board of Directors ;
       is not affiliated with an official of the Company or an official of the management organization;
       is not and has not been for the last year an affiliate of the Company, excluding a member of the Board of Directors of the Company ;
       is not and has not been for the last year a person whose spouse, parents, children, full and half brothers and sisters, adoptive parents and adopted children are individuals holding positions in management bodies of the Company, the management organization of the Company or are the managers of the Company, and also are the consultants of the Company providing services to the Company under a contract;
       is not a representative of the state ;
       is not the representative of a major shareholder, meaning a person elected to the Board of Directors from among the candidates nominated by a shareholder of the Company, owning (together with its affiliates) more than twenty (20) percent of the voting shares of the Company, if such member of the Board of Directors votes under the written directives (instructions) of such shareholder;
       is not a party to the obligations of the Company, which allow him/her to acquire any property (receive monetary funds) with the value of ten (10) percent or more of his/her gross annual income, except as remuneration for participating in the activities of the Company's Board of Directors;
        is not the final beneficiary, controlling more than 20% of the shares of the Company.
A member of the Board of Directors, who formally belongs to the category of independent director, may not be included in the list of independent directors of the Board of Directors by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company based on an evaluation of his relationship with the Company's officials, major counterparties and shareholders of the Company and other relationships that may affect the independence of his judgment.
Following a 7-year term of office as a member of the Board of Directors, an independent director shall not be regarded as independent.
If following any event the member of the Board of Directors of the Company, elected to the Board of Directors as an independent, ceases to comply with the criteria of independence, he shall announce the loss of such status to the Board of Directors within five (5) business days after losing the status of an independent member of the Board of Directors.
5.3.    Requirements placed on a member of the Board of Directors of the Company
A member of the Board of Directors of the Company, acting in his capacity as such, shall:
Carry out his activities in the interests of the Company  in a reasonable manner and in
good faith;
Have a sufficient amount of time for effective performance of his duties as a member of
the Board of Directors;
Express his opinion and defend it, if he believes that it is in the interests of the Company;
Disclose information on his interest in the transactions of the Company in cases and in the manner provided by applicable laws, the Charter and internal documents of the Company.
A member of the Board of Directors of the Company may not use his participation in the Board of Directors of the Company in order to lobby, directly or indirectly, his private interests in the Company.
When making decisions on holding concurrent positions in the management bodies of other organizations, a member of the Board of Directors of the Company shall proceed from the fact that he can properly act as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company only when having a sufficient amount of time.
5.4.    Organizing the work of the Board of Directors of the Company
The procedure for calling and holding meetings of the Board of Directors of the Company shall be governed by the Regulations of the Board of Directors, approved by the General Shareholders’ Meeting.
The Board of Directors of the Company shall hold its meetings, as a rule, no less than on one
(1) occasion per quarter. No less than one (1) meeting shall be devoted to the development strategy of the Company, the investment program and to the approval of the business plan (budget) of the Company for the next financial year.
Meetings of the Board of Directors of the Company may be held both in the form of concurrent attendance by the members of the Board of Directors and in absentia (by polling). A resolution on the form of the meetings of the Board of Directors of the Company shall be adopted by its Chairman.
To ensure their effective work, the members of the Board of Directors of the Company shall have access to all information about the Company that is necessary to adopt the resolutions.
5.5.    Competence of the Board of Directors of the Company
The competence of the Board of Directors of the Company, including a list of issues related to the exclusive competence of the Board of Directors, shall be defined by the Charter of the Company.
5.6.    Committees of the Board of Directors of the Company
To deal with separate tasks faced by the Company, the Board of Directors of the Company may form committees, including the Audit Committee, the Human Resources and Remunerations Committee and others.
A committee of the Board of Directors of the Company shall operate under the regulations approved by the Board of Directors of the Company.
The members of the committees of the Board of Directors of the Company shall be appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company.
A committee of the Board of Directors of the Company shall meet as necessary and in accordance with the relevant Regulations approved by the Board of Directors.
The committees of the Board of Directors of the Company may hold joint meetings.
6.  Executive Bodies of the Company
To ensure the operational management of the Company, the Board of Directors of the Company shall establish the executive bodies of the Company, such as the collective executive body (Management Board) and the One-person Executive Body of the Company.
Subject to a resolution of the General Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company, the powers of the One-person Executive Body may be transferred to a management organization. The Board of Directors of the Company may adopt a resolution on the suspension of powers of the management organization and convening of an Extraordinary General Shareholders' Meeting in accordance with applicable laws.
The executive bodies of the Company shall be accountable to the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Company and the Board of Directors of the Company.
The executive bodies of the Company shall consider as their main purpose the conscientious and competent performance of obligations with regard to the management of the current activities of the Company that ensures the long-term profitability of the Company.
To achieve this purpose, the executive bodies shall first resolve the tasks aimed at implementing the goals, strategies and policies of the Company and also shall execute in good faith, in a timely manner and effectively the resolutions of the Board of Directors and the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Company.
The One-person Executive Body (management organization) shall be responsible for the organization, condition and reliability of the accounting records in the Company, the timely submission of the annual report and other financial statements to the relevant authorities, as well as the information about the Company provided to the shareholders, creditors and the media.
The activities of the Management Board and the One-person Executive Body (management organization) shall be governed by the Charter of the Company, the Regulations of the Management Board approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting and other internal documents of the Company.
The Management Board and the One-person Executive Body of the Company (management organization) shall regularly provide information to the Board of Directors on all major issues of the business activities, including information on the implementation of the development strategy of the Company, profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as reports on performance of the annual business plans (budgets) and investment programs of the Company.
7.  Remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors and executive bodies of the Company
The Board of Directors of the Company shall approve the system and amount of remuneration of the member of the Management Board and the One-person Executive Body of the Company (management organization) and, in accordance with established procedure, shall submit the system of the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company to the General Shareholders' Meeting for approval.
The system of remuneration shall be transparent and understandable to shareholders. The annual report of the Company shall include information on the total amount paid as remuneration and compensation to the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
In drafting its recommendations to the General Shareholders' Meeting on the issue of remuneration to the members of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors shall be guided by the following principles:
       The amount of remuneration shall be determined by the need to engage highly skilled specialists and ensure their participation in the work of the Company, and motivate them for conscientious and effective activities;
       Competitiveness of the remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison with other organizations operating in similar conditions;
       Participation of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company in the committees of the Board of Directors shall be considered in drafting the recommendations for paying the remuneration to such members of the Board of Directors;
The Board of Directors may recommend that the General Shareholders' Meeting adopt a resolution on the payment of remuneration both in cash and in kind.
8.  Secretary of the Board of Directors
In order to ensure the strict compliance by the bodies and officials of the Company with the procedures established by the applicable laws, the Charter of the Company and internal documents of the Company, the Board of Directors of the Company shall appoint the Secretary of the Board of Directors.
The Secretary of the Board of Directors shall report to the Board of Directors of the Company. The activities of the Secretary of the Board of Directors shall be directly supervised by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company.
9.  Controlling financial and business activities of the Company
9.1.    Audit Commission of the Company
To control the financial and business activities of the Company, the applicable laws provide for the establishment of the Company's Audit Commission.
The members of the Audit Commission shall be elected by the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Company. In selecting their candidates for the Audit Commission, the shareholders of the Company must take a responsible approach to the assessment of professional qualities of the candidates.
The activities of the Audit Commission of the Company shall be governed by the Charter and the Regulations of the Audit Commission approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting of Company.
The Audit Commission shall conduct the audits of the financial and business activities and form an independent qualified opinion about the state of affairs in the Company. The conclusions of the Audit Commission shall be communicated to the Company's shareholders at the General Shareholders Meeting in the form of findings of the Audit Commission as part of the annual report of the Company.
The Audit Commission shall audit the functioning of the internal controls and management and risk management systems and shall report the results of its audit in the findings handed over to the shareholders along with other documents prior to the annual meeting.
In its activities, the Audit Commission shall not be bound by the opinions and instructions of the officials of the Company and shall act independently.
9.2.    Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
To exercise effective direct control over the financial and business activities of the Company, by the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors shall establish an Audit Committee.
The activities of the Audit Committee shall be governed by the Regulations of the Audit Committee approved by the Board of Directors of the Company.
9.3.    Human Resources and Remunerations Committee of the Board of Directors
To engage the qualified specialists in the management of the Company and create the necessary incentives for their successful work, the Board of Directors shall establish a Human Resources and Remunerations Committee.
The activities of the Human Resources and Remunerations Committee shall be governed by the Regulations of the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee approved by the Board of Directors of the Company.
9.4.    Auditor of the Company
The auditor of the Company shall be approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Company based on the proposals of the Board of Directors.
10. Relationship of the Company with subsidiary and dependent companies
As a shareholder (partner) of subsidiary and dependent companies, the Company shall perform its relationship  with the subsidiary and dependent companies in accordance with the requirements of applicable laws of the Russian Federation on joint-stock companies, limited liability companies, the Charter of the Company, the charters of subsidiary and dependent companies, and the provisions of internal documents of the Company.
The position of the Company on the matters in the agenda of the general shareholders' (members') meetings and the meetings of the boards of directors of subsidiary and dependent companies shall be determined in accordance with the Charter of the Company and other internal documents of the Company.


11. Transactions of the Company with its subsidiaries
The procedure for major non arm’s-length transactions of the Company with its subsidiaries shall be implemented in accordance with the requirements of applicable laws of the Russian Federation, the Charter of the Company and the charters of its subsidiaries.
12. Disclosure of information, confidential information, insider information
The general principles of the information policy of the Company shall be the completeness, promptitude, objectivity and reliability of disclosed information about the Company and ensuring free and easy access to such information.
The information disclosed by the Company in accordance with the applicable laws of the Russian Federation, and other information about the Company shall be posted on  the  official website of the Company.
The Company shall ensure timely and accurate disclosure of all material matters of its activities by following the requirements established by the applicable laws of the Russian Federation and voluntarily disclosing additional information.
The Company shall provide its annual report to the shareholders on an annual basis. The composition of the information disclosed in the annual report shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company by taking into account the requirements of the applicable laws of the Russian Federation and international practices.
The information that constitutes official or trade secrets and insider information must be protected.
The list of information that constitutes official or trade secrets, rules of access to and use of such information, and responsibility for violation of the established rules shall be defined by the appropriate internal documents  of the Company.
The definition of the insider information, the list of insider information, procedure of access to and use of insider information, rules of protecting the confidentiality of insider information shall be established by the applicable laws, the Charter of the Company, the Regulations of insider information of OJSC SIBUR Holding, as approved by the Board of Directors and other internal documents of the Company.
In order to protect information that constitutes official or trade secrets and insider information, the Company will take the necessary measures aimed at including the non-disclosure provisions with regard to such information in the contracts concluded with the officials, employees, consultants of the Company and other parties.
The members of the Board of Directors, the members of the Management Board, the One- person Executive Body of the Company (management organization) shall be required to disclose information on the ownership of securities of the Company, as well as on their sale and/or purchase of securities of the Company in accordance with applicable laws, the Charter of the Company, the Regulations of insider Information of OJSC SIBUR Holding and other internal documents of the Company.
13. Final Provisions
This Code shall become effective from the date of its approval by the Board of Directors of the Company and shall be published on the official website (page) of the Company.
Sibur Holding Code of Ethics
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Russia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Approved by OJSC SIBUR
Holding Board of Directors Minutes No.162 dated 25 March 2013
CORPORATE CODE OF ETHICS OJSC SIBUR HOLDING
(version 2)
Saint-Petersburg 2013
1.  General
1.1 This Corporate Code of Ethics (hereinafter, the ‘Code’) is developed to boost the business reputation of SIBUR Group, promote fair and ethical business development, preventing abuse and violations of the laws.
1.2 OJSC Sibur Holding, LLC SIBUR (the Managing Company of OJSC SIBUR Holding) and other SIBUR Group entities assume the following responsibilities:
   to shareholders and investors: protect the investments and ensure the growth of the invested capital value comparable to other chemical industry leaders, build relations with the shareholders and investors so as to protect their legitimate rights in the best way possible;
   to Employees: respect the rights and freedoms of the Employees, treat all Employees with trust, provide them with equal opportunities, decent and safe working conditions, ensure timely payment of salary;
   to consumers: gain and maintain the consumers’ trusts by developing and offering advantageously priced, high quality products that are safe for the human and the environment.
   to business partners: seek long-term cooperation and partnership relations with contractors, suppliers, partners in joint ventures based on mutual benefit, respect, trust, honesty and fairness, consistently perform all contractual obligations.
   to the society: adhere to fair and open business conduct principles, operate taking into account social responsibility principles, comply in good faith with the effective laws, be a responsible taxpayer, not compete illegitimately, pay the requisite attention to HSE and security matters.
1.3 This Code applies to all SIBUR Group operations and represents a minimum set of standards and requirements. The Code is not an exhaustive code of rules and does not provide for each particular situation that may arise in the course of business. Certain provisions of the Code are dealt with in more detail in respective local regulations of the Company, the Managing Company and other SIBUR Group entities.
1.4 This Code shall be mandatory for all employees of OJSC SIBUR Holding, LLC SIBUR (the Managing Company of OJSC SIBUR Holding) and other SIBUR Group entities.
1.5 It is recommended that all entities included into SIBUR Group develop, taking into the account the peculiarities of their operations, their own internal documents ensuring compliance with the requirements of this Code.

1.6 It is recommended that the contractors of SIBUR Group comply with the requirements of this Code when they operate on behalf and/or to the benefit of the entities included into SIBUR Group.
1.7 This Code does not rule out the need to comply with the requirements of the effective laws of the Russian Federation. Should there be any inconsistencies between the requirements of this Code and the effective laws of the Russian Federation, it is necessary to be guided by the legislative requirements.
1.8 For all matters related to the interpretation and application of this Code, Employees may contact the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company at:  compliance@sibur.ru.

2.  Terms, Definitions & Abbreviations
2.1 SIBUR Group means the legal entities, financial statements of which are included into the consolidated financial statements of OJSC SIBUR Holding drawn up in compliance with the international standards of financial statements.
2.2 Employee means an individual having employment relations with the employer.
2.3 Employer means LLC SIBUR, OJSC SIBUR Holding Enterprises having employment relations with the employees.
2.4 Function means a number of operations characterized as having homogeneous objectives.
2.5 Insiders means individuals or legal entities recognized as such under the effective laws and the internal documents of the Company, the Managing Company or other SIBUR Group entities.
2.6 Insider Information means accurate and specific information that was not circulated or provided, circulation or provision of which may materially affect the price of the financial instruments, foreign exchange and/or the goods.
2.7 LLC SIBUR Ethics and Discipline Committee means a standing operating collegiate advisory body set up by resolution of the Managing Company Management Board and operating in accordance with the Regulation on the Ethics and Discipline of LLC SIBUR.
2.8 Counterparty (for the purposes of this Code) means any Business Company involved in business relations with the companies included into SIBUR Group, including suppliers, contractors, subcontractors, customers, partners in a joint venture;
2.9 Conflict of Interests means any situation or circumstances where a personal interest or the activities of the Employee or his/her close relatives prevent or may prevent the Employee from acting to the benefit of SIBUR Group fairly, perform their responsibilities in good faith, without bias and efficiently.

Personal interest that prevents or may prevent an Employee from acting to the benefit of SIBUR Group means possible receipt by the Employee (as well as his/her close relatives) in the course of performing his/her employment duties of proceeds in the form of money, valuables, other property of services having the nature of property, property rights or other benefits for himself/herself or third parties, except for the salary and other compensation received by the Employee from the Employer.
Close Relatives means the following persons:
   Spouse;
   Actual partners of the employee with whom no marriage is registered by the state;
   Parents, as well as the adoptive parents, custodians and trustees;
   Children, including adopted children;
   Grandparents;
   Grandchildren;
   Full blood or part blood brothers and sisters (sharing only a mother or a father);
   Nephews and nieces;
   Uncles, aunts;
   Abovementioned relatives of the spouse.
2.10    Company means OJSC SIBUR Holding.
2.11    Managing Company means LLC SIBUR.
2.12    Gift (for the purposes hereof) means any object, item or service of value, without the corporate symbols of SIBUR Group, which is being gratuitously given, offered, gifted or received.
2.13    Business Company means a commercial entity, non-profit entity engaging in operations to derive profits, an individual entrepreneur or another individual not registered as an individual entrepreneur, but engaging in a professional activity allowing to derive profits which is not his labor function.

3.  Key Rules, Responsibilities and Liability
3.1 Key SIBUR Group rules include:
   Safety – create and maintain safe work conditions;
   Focus on performance – think-do-achieve.
   Cooperation and teamwork – contribute to the team success;
   Trust, reliability and mutual respect;
   Initiative, leadership – demonstrate initiative and enthusiasm;
   People development – seek professional and personal development.
3.2 All Employees, irrespective of the positions they hold, shall:
   be loyal to SIBUR Group, always act to the benefit of SIBUR Group, unless this conflicts the effective laws;
   be aware of and comply with the laws applicable to SIBUR Group within their competencies and employment duties;
   be  aware  of  and  comply  with  the  provisions  of  this  Code,  other  internal documents of the Employer;
   perform, in a timely manner, professionally and in good faith, the tasks and functions vested in them, comply with the labor discipline and safe workplace conduct as provided for in this Code and other internal documents of the Employer;
   undergo  regular  training  on  the  matters  of  compliance  with  the  Code  in accordance with the internal documents of the Employer;
   demonstrate   commitment   to   the   Code   in   their   day-to-day   professional operations.
3.3 Each Employee, irrespective of the position held, shall answer the following questions when making decisions and taking actions:
   is this lawful?
   does this decision/action comply with the Code and other internal documents of the Employer?
   does this fit in with the interests of SIBUR Group, does this decision/action cause any unacceptable risks for SIBUR Group?
   what will others – management, colleagues or family – think of this action?
   what will be the perception if this is covered by the mass media?
3.4 Violations of the Code shall be investigated in accordance with the effective laws and internal documents of the Employer. The Employees materially violating the rules and provisions hereof, may be held liable under the effective laws of the RF, dependent on the circumstances.
3.5 Employees shall forthwith report any violations or potential violations of the laws, this Code and the internal Employer’s documents they become aware of following the procedure set forth by this Code and the internal documents of the Employer.

3.6 Concealing, as well as deliberate untimely disclosure of the details regarding violation of the laws and/or this Code for any reason is unacceptable and will be regarded as improper performance by the Employee of his employment duties.
3.7 The Company, the Managing Company and other SIBUR Group entities guarantee that there will be no response repressive actions in respect of the Employer or any other person, reporting a violation or potential violation of the Code. If the Employee deliberately circulates false information to discredit another person, he may be held liable in accordance with the effective laws of the Russian Federation.
3.8 Employees reporting in a timely manner and in full the violations they committed may, according to the effective laws and dependent on the circumstances of the violation, expect indulgent attitude by the Employer. If they actively assist in investigating the Code violations, which reveals the Code violations by other persons, the Employees may expect, according to the effective laws and dependent on the circumstances, to be released from liability in respect of the violations committed.

4.  Health, Safety & Environment (HSE)
4.1 SIBUR Group proclaims intolerance towards health & safety violations. Any and all on-the-job injuries, incidents and accidents, as well as their pre-requisites, shall be investigated.
4.2 Violations of HSE requirements shall inevitably cause the sanctions provided for by the effective laws.
4.3 All Employees, irrespective of the positions held, shall:
   be  aware  of  and  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  RF  laws,  internal documents of the Employer pertaining to health and safety;
   terminate any work if it becomes unsafe or may cause spills, emissions, leaks or other unsafe consequences for their life and safety or the life and safety of those around them;
   commence/permit the work performance only subject to the employees being duly qualified, duly trained and medically fit;
 
   use personal protective equipment, where such is required for the tasks and works delivery;
   assist in investigating on-the-job incidents and accidents.
4.4 All Employees shall comply with the key safety rules:
   it is prohibited to conceal information on the incidents and accidents, fires, on- the-job injuries, technology regime violations;
   it is prohibited to be at a workplace being intoxicated with alcohol, narcotics or other substances, carry in, store or deal in drugs or other prohibited substances within any SIBUR Group premises or facilities;
   it is prohibited to perform hazardous works without a work permit;
   it is prohibited to turn off or violate the integrity of the locking devices and other devices ensuring the safety of the operating equipment without a respective written permit;
   it  is  prohibited  to  use  open  fire  outside  specially  designated  places,  unless provided for by a work permit;
   it  is  prohibited  to  smoke  within  any  premises  or  facilities  of  SIBUR  Group outside the specially designated places.
4.5 The Employees holding executive positions shall comply with the principles for the executives commitment to safety issues:
   demonstrate commitment to safety issues by personal example;
   persuade  the  employees  that  safety  is  as  important,  as  the  other  business objectives;
   conduct a behavioral safety audit, ensure taking corrective actions;
   comply with the safety rules adopted in the company;
   conduct briefings based on the risks assessment;
   investigate all incidents, implement corrective actions;
   personally hold health and safety meetings;
   motivate employees to work safely.
4.6 Employees involved in the operations and technology shall control compliance with HSE requirements by other Employees, including the employees of the contractor organizations performing works at SIBUR Group facilities/sites.
4.7 In case of accidents, incidents, injuries, leaks and emissions, other emergencies creating a hazard for the life and safety of the human, suspected HSE violations, Employees shall forthwith report it to the Health & Safety Function of the Managing Company.

5.  Labor Relations
5.1 Work and career in SIBUR Group is the area of maximally fair competition of talent, knowledge and effort. For a successful career, it is necessary to follow the corporate culture principles, improve the performance of their functions, master new knowledge and skills, submit process improvement initiatives. The growth of each employee’s remuneration level depends on SIBUR Group’s performance on the market. Personal success only matters in context of the overall performance.
5.2 SIBUR Group considers compliance by all employees with the labor laws, including provisions relating to hiring, training, further training, certification, assessment, provisions of guarantees and compensation, applying disciplinary sanctions, dismissal, to be not only a legal, but also a public duty of all employees.
5.3 Employees are hired by SIBUR Group and are provided with equal career growth opportunities, irrespective of their:
   age;
   gender;
   race, nationality, ethnicity, skin color, mother tongue;
   confession and religious beliefs;
   property, social, job and marital status;
   political beliefs, being part of a public association.
5.4 Employees shall perform in good faith their employment duties, demonstrate unbiased attitude in their work, respect other people, avoid situations which may be perceived as creating an atmosphere of discrimination, violence, hostility or threatening.
5.5 It is prohibited in SIBUR Group:
   to diminish other people’s honor and dignity;
   make insulting comments and/or take actions related to race, nationality, religion, ethnicity, skin color, mother tongue, gender, age, property, social, marital status, political beliefs, physical capabilities of the person and other similar characteristics;
   circulate   and   demonstrate   materials   insulting   the   morality,   national   and religious feelings of the people;
   knowingly circulate false information to discredit the employees and undermine their reputation;
   bring weapons inside the SIBUR Group sites/facilities, including cold and sports weapons.
5.6 In the event of discovery of labor relations violations or suspected labor relations violations, Employees shall forthwith report this to the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company, sending a message to: compliance@sibur.ru.
6.  Competition Protection & Antitrust Laws
6.1 Actively competing, SIBUR Group believes that competition should be fair and in good faith, in accordance with the laws. SIBUR Group stringently complies with the competition protection or antitrust laws.
6.2 Employees must be aware, as part of their competences and job description, of the antitrust laws requirements and the requirements of the internal documents of the Employer relating to competition protection and compliance with the antitrust laws.
6.3 Employees shall, before taking the actions below and making respective decisions and in compliance with the internal documents of the Employer, inform the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company or the legal service of their Employer as follows:
   of taking actions agreed with the competitors or Contractors to change the situation on the market, including pricing, marketing and production;
   of entering into agreements on joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions, cooperation in marketing, procurement and similar joint operations;
   of the planned one-off (over 10%) or scheduled (over 30% within half a year) change of price on the markets showing the signs indicating dominant position of the Company or another SIBUR Group entity;
   of the planned reduction or termination of production of the goods on the markets where there are signs indicating dominant position of the Company or another SIBUR Group entity;
   of other occurrences in line with the internal documents of the Employer.
6.4 Any petition, request or notice submitted to duly competent government antitrust regulation and supervision authorities, responses to requests and applications of the abovementioned authorities shall be agreed by the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company.
6.5 Director of the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company may request any information regarding the operations of the Company, the Managing Company and other SIBUR Group entities as part of ensuring compliance with the antitrust laws, and the Employees shall provide the requisite information upon request.
6.6 It is strictly prohibited to:
   set and maintain product prices that may be held to be monopolistically high or low;
   make decisions, having no legitimate grounds, on reduction or termination of production, products withdrawal, setting different prices for the same products, refusal to enter into agreements with certain Contractors;
   create discriminatory conditions for certain Contractors;
   enter into any, including unofficial, agreements with competitors on the matters relating to pricing, production volumes, refusal to enter into agreements with certain sellers or buyers, markets division, without approval of the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company;
   discuss, exchange any information with competitors relating to pricing, production volumes, consumers, suppliers, markets.
6.7 Should there be discovered any instances of or in case of any suspected competition protection violations, Employees shall forthwith notify thereof the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company, by sending a message to: compliance@sibur.ru.
7.  Combatting Corruption, Fraud, Property Protection and Preventing Conflict of Interests
7.1 Employees shall strictly comply with the laws and the internal documents of the Employer relating to combatting fraud and corruption. It is prohibited to offer, promise, give, extort or receive a bribe in any form, make commercial bribes, abuse the powers, demonstrate readiness to make or accept any illegal payments. It is prohibited, acting on behalf and/or to the benefit of the SIBUR Group, to allow any illegitimate attempts of exerting influence over the decision-making of the government authorities and/or local self-governance authorities.
7.2 All SIBUR Group assets must be used as intended and for legitimate business purposes. It is prohibited to pilfer or carelessly treat, deliberately destroy or damage the property or use without an authorization the information that is property of the Company, the Managing Company or any other SIBUR Group
entities. The Employees shall protect the Employer’s assets from loss, stealing, non- intended, illegitimate or inefficient usage.
7.3 A necessary condition for the performance by the Employees of their employment duties shall be the absence of a Conflict of Interest, and where such is revealed, its timely disclosure and settlement.
7.4 Employees must be aware of and comply with the requirements of this Code and the internal documents of the Employer in the area of Conflict of Interest management.
7.5 Should a Conflict of Interest arise:
   The Employee shall forthwith report it following the procedure set forth in this Code and the internal documents of the Employer. If the Employee doubts the existence of a Conflict of Interest or the way certain circumstances should be assessed, he must seek clarifications with the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company at: compliance@sibur.ru.
   It is recommended that Employees refrain from taking part, directly or indirectly, in making decisions or taking actions related to a specific Conflict of Interest situation, before the issue of respective recommendations in line with the internal documents of the Employer.
7.6 Information regarding a Conflict of Interest shall be thoroughly verified and reviewed in accordance with the requirements of the internal documents of the Company, the Managing Company and other SIBUR Group entities to assess the materiality of the risks arising for SIBUR Group on the whole, and select the most suitable form of settling this particular Conflict of Interest.

7.7 Employees may not offer, deliver or accept any incentives or Gifts, compensation, loans, guarantees, surety, material aid, if it may provoke a Conflict of Interest during the performance by the employees of their obligations, or where such actions  violate the laws or may damage the business reputation of SIBUR Group. Should any questions arise, the Employees may seek assistance of the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company at: compliance@sibur.ru.
7.8 It is strictly prohibited that the Employees, acting on behalf and/or to the benefit of SIBUR Group, would offer, deliver or accept from third-party Business Companies Gifts in the form of cash and its equivalents, irrespective of the amount, securities (including deposit or savings certificates), irrespective of their market value, precious metals, precious gems and jewelry made of them.
7.9 In case of discovering instances of or suspected pilfering, fraud, corruption, Conflict of Interest, Employees shall forthwith report it following the procedure stipulated in the internal documents of the Employer, or to the Economic Security Function of the Managing Company, sending a message to: For_info@sibur.ru.
 
8.  Using Insider Information
8.1 Employees shall assume the obligation to comply with the applicable laws on countering the use of the insider information and market manipulation, if applicable to the Employer.
8.2 Employees who are Insiders shall:
   familiarize themselves with the internal documents of the Employer pertaining to countering the use of insider information and market manipulation and observe them;
   following the procedure provided for by the effective laws and internal documents of the Employer, notify the Employer, as well as the duly competent government authorities of the operations they performed with the securities of the Employer or its affiliates, and of entering into agreements that are derivative financial instruments, the price of which depends on the price of securities of the Employer and its affiliates;
   following the procedure provided  for by the effective laws and  the internal documents of the Employer, notify the Employer and the duly competent government authorities of the accomplished operations with  financial instruments, foreign currency and/or the goods to which the Insider Information they have access to applies;
   take all actions within their powers to protect and prevent illegitimate use and circulation of the Insider Information;
   forthwith notify the authorized employee of the loss of documents, files containing Insider Information, certificates, passes, passwords, electronic keys and smart cards containing the information itself or the details enabling access thereto, or finding unauthorized access to the Insider Information.

8.3 Employees who are Insiders may not, under any circumstances:
   use the Insider Information to perform operations with the securities of the Employer, its affiliates or the goods to which the Insider Information relates, at their own expense or at the expense of any third party, except in the instances provided for by the effective laws or the internal documents of the Employer;
   use the Insider Information by delivering it to another person, except when such information is delivered to another person included into the Insiders list, due to the performance of the obligations provided  for by the effective laws, or in relation to the performance of the employment duties or agreement;
   use the Insider Information by issuing recommendations to third parties, binding or otherwise compelling them to acquire or sell the securities of the Employer or the affiliates and/or goods;
   perform actions classified as the market manipulation under the applicable laws.
8.4 Upon discovering instances or suspected violation of the laws countering the use of the insider information and the market manipulation, Employees shall forthwith report this to the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company, sending a message at: compliance@sibur.ru.
9.  Communication, Information Exchange and Corporate Style
9.1 Information exchange between the Functions and the Employees is encouraged, provided that such information is not confidential. Information exchange between the Functions and the Employees shall enable prompt receipt by the Employees of the information required for the performance of their immediate responsibilities.
9.2 Employee generating an information request to another Function shall adhere to the information exchange ethics adopted by the SIBUR Group:
   a  request  may  be  sent  after  the  Employee  made  sure  that  the  requisite information is not available in the accessible information networks;
   requests shall be sent within the functional vertical, as agreed with heads of Functions;
   when sending a request, the line manager of the person who is to perform the request shall be copied;
   the purpose of the request shall be made known to the person who is to perform the request;
   when  generating  a  request,  the  methodology  of  information  collection  and provision (format, instruction on filling in) shall be determined;
   enough time must be allowed for the request processing, taking into account possible questions by the person who is to perform the request;
   simple questions submitted by the colleagues, not taking too much time to answer and not requiring material adjustments of the work schedules shall be handled in the ordinary course of business.
9.3 SIBUR Group adheres to information transparency principle and implements this principle by broad dialogue with the public. The following requirements are made to the information communicated to the public:
   information circulation shall not conflict with the current laws;
   information shall not distort the actual facts;
   information shall   not contain any controversial   details and/or  allow controversial perception;
   information shall not contain any confidential data;
   information may only be circulated by duly authorized persons.
9.4 In case of any contact by the mass media, the Employee shall submit a request to the Corporate Communications Function of the Managing Company, without commenting on any matters.
9.5 All requests from the banks’ representatives, investment companies, other financial organizations, investment analysts shall be forwarded by the Employees to the Investor Relations Function of the Managing Company, without commenting on any matters.
9.6 In case of speaking at a public event (conferences, round tables, workshops and other events), the Employees shall, not later than 5 days before the event, notify thereof the Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Functions.
 9.7    To circulate any public data on the operations of the Company, the Managing Company or the SIBUR Group in any form, including posting to the websites information materials containing:
   details of operations and transactions;
   details of assets, liabilities and financial standing;
   details of the management, including HR solutions;
   details of the business prospects in the past, present and the future;
   details and forecasts of capital expenses, profit, cash flows, dividend payments, future financials;
   details of the Company and/or SIBUR Group value, including the securities;
   any advertisement;
   any details circulated by means of organized coverage in printed or other mass media.
Employees shall obtain approval of the Corporate Communications Function.

9.8 When providing information regarding the operations of the Company, the Managing Company or SIBUR Group, containing the details provided for in clause
9.7 of the Code, to the government authorities, Employees shall obtain approval of the Government Relations Function of the Managing Company, where the provision of such information is not part of the usual functionality of such Employees.
9.9 Corporate style means a comprehensive visual identification system contributing to building a positive image of SIBUR Group and contributing to the efficiency of its production and commercial operations, enhancing the partners’ trust, popularity growth and reputation.
9.10    It is mandatory to observe key unified corporate style rules for all Employees who, due to their employment duties, use corporate style elements, handle the corporate documents, are responsible for the styling of the SIBUR Group facilities, and manufacture the visuals bearing the corporate style: souvenir, printed, entertainment and other products.
9.11    Should they discover any instances of actual or suspected violations in the area of communications or information exchange, Employees shall forthwith report this to the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company, by sending a message to:  compliance@sibur.ru.

10. Relations between SIBUR Group Entities
10.1    The relations between the Company and the Managing Company with other SIBUR Group entities are built on the basis of transparency, trust, mutual support, respect and partnership.
10.2    Employees of the Managing Company must be aware of and comply with the following rules for dealing with the SIBUR Group Employees:
   subordination;
   cooperation when making decisions;
   control and trust;
   sharing liability;
   clear and transparent regulations;
   preventing redundant managerial decisions and regulatory documents, reducing the bureaucracy;
   partnership communication style.
10.3    Employees of the Managing Company must be attentive to the organizational structure of the entities included into the SIBUR Group and take into account the subordination style of these entities’ Employees.

10.4    It is recommended that the Employees of the Managing Company should actively engage the colleagues from other SIBUR Group entities in the process of managerial decision-making, delegate to them resolving current matters outside the terms of reference of the Managing Company. When working on joint projects, it is necessary to clearly delineate the functionality and the responsibility areas.

11. Risk-Oriented Management and Internal Control
11.1    The operations of SIBUR Group are related to objective risks - technogenic, environmental, financial, economic, social, HR, reputational, etc.
11.2    The Employees practice preventive approach to risks management and use the basic risk management principles, including:
   endorsing  risks  identification  across  all  managerial  levels,  supporting  open discussion of risks
   specific risks identification,
   ongoing risks assessment and update procedure,
   lessons learnt from the actual events, sharing liability.
11.3    Employees shall not ignore possible risks, even though they are outside their competence. It is necessary to immediately report the existing or potential threats to the line manager, and when no actions are taken at this level – report the information to the upper tier.
11.4    Managers at all management levels organize an internal control of the actual facts of business operations aimed at mitigating the impacts of the risks and enhancing the likelihood of achieving the objectives of SIBUR Group in accordance with the RF legislative requirements. The cost of the control procedures organization shall not exceed the level of potential damage from the risk.

12. Accounting and Reporting
12.1    Accurate accounting is an important factor of successful business, as the accounting provides a source of data ensuring decision-making by the shareholders, executive management, investors, Counterparties, regulators and the society. Accurate accounting must be ensured for both, financial and non-financial indicators.
12.2    All accounting documents of SIBUR Group must contain complete, accurate and reliable information and comply with the applicable standards, laws and regulations relating to accounting, financial, managerial and tax reporting. Falsification of documents, transactions, as well as incorrect interpretation are not permissible and may not be justified in any way.
12.3    All operations must be accounted for in a timely manner, accurately, correctly and in sufficient detail, must be documented and available for verification and/or audit.
12.4    No incomplete, inaccurate or misleading entries to the accounting documents shall be made or authorized in SIBUR Group. It is strictly prohibited to carry undisclosed, unaccounted for or inaccurately accounted for assets, liabilities, profits or expenses.
12.5    Should there be revealed actual or suspected deliberate or non-deliberate distortion of the accounting information, the Employees shall forthwith report it to the Legal Support Function of the Managing Company at compliance@sibur.ru.

13. Final Provisions
13.1    Employment contract of any Employee of the Company, Managing Company or another SIBUR Group entity shall contain a clause on this Code observance.
13.2    The persons holding executive positions in the Company, Managing Company or other SIBUR Group entities shall set an example of law obedient and ethical conduct and actively support compliance with the requirements hereof.
13.3    Any changes, supplements or amendments to this Code shall be approved by the Board of Directors of OJSC SIBUR Holding.
Sinopec
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: China
Type of Organisation: Chemical - Industry
Type of Document: Combined

CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS

I.  Introduction

At Sinopec Daylight Energy Ltd. and its subsidiaries ("Sinopec Daylight" or the "Corporation") we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of honesty and accountability and we recognize that each employee, officer, director, service provider and consultant (collectively "employees") has an important role to play in achieving this goal. Sinopec Daylight's reputation is dependent upon the integrity and sense of responsibility of its employees. Sinopec Daylight is committed to conducting all of its affairs with honesty, integrity and fairness and expects the same from all of its business partners. The Corporation will not take unfair advantage of anyone through illegal conduct, manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts or other dishonest or unfair practices.

This Code reflects our commitment to a culture of honesty, integrity and accountability and outlines the basic principles and policies with which all employees are expected to comply. Please read this Code carefully.

In addition to following this Code in all aspects of your business activities, you are expected to seek guidance in any case where there is a question about compliance with both the letter and spirit of our policies and applicable laws. This Code sets forth general principles and does not supersede the specific policies and procedures that are covered in the specific policies statements, such as the Disclosure, Confidentiality and Trading Policy and Whistleblower Policy and Procedures. References in this Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to Sinopec Daylight or the Corporation means Sinopec Daylight Energy Ltd. or any of its partnerships and subsidiaries.

When considering their own conduct, employees should also be guided by some basic questions they can ask themselves, such as:
    Can I justify this action?
    Are my actions legal? Ethical?
    How would my actions appear if published on the front page of a newspaper?
    Would disclosure of my involvement in this situation be embarrassing to myself, my family, or Sinopec Daylight?

Failure to comply with the Code can have severe consequences for both the employee and Sinopec Daylight. Appropriate discipline, up to and including dismissal, will be imposed by Sinopec Daylight for violations of the Code. Furthermore, conduct that violates the Code may also violate federal or provincial law and can subject both Sinopec Daylight and the employee to prosecution or other legal actions. The principles set forth in this Code are conditions of each employee's engagement with Sinopec Daylight, employees continue to be bound by these conditions, as revised from time to time to reflect changes in business or organization. Any employee who does not comply with these conditions will be subject to the consequences set out above. Sinopec Daylight senior officers and other managers are responsible for monitoring compliance with the Code within their respective areas of responsibility.

Your cooperation is necessary to the continued success of our business and the cultivation and maintenance of our reputation as a good corporate citizen.
 


II. Conflicts of Interest

A conflict of interest occurs when an individual's private interest interferes, appears to interfere or has the potential to interfere in any way with the interests of the Corporation. A conflict situation can arise when an employee takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her work effectively. Conflicts of interest also arise when an employee, officer or director, or a member of his or her family, receives improper personal benefits as a result of his or her position with Sinopec Daylight. Loans to, or guarantees of obligations of, such persons are likely to pose conflicts of interest, as are transactions of any kind between the Corporation and any other organization in which you or any member of your family have an interest. In all circumstances, employees of the Corporation are expected to provide suppliers and customers with a full and fair opportunity to do business with the Corporation, and to ensure decisions relating to the business of the Corporation are made on a commercial basis.

Activities that could give rise to conflicts of interest are prohibited unless specifically approved in advance by the Board of Directors or its designees. It is not always easy to determine whether a conflict of interest exists, so any potential conflicts of interests must be reported immediately to senior management.

In order to effectively monitor and manage potential conflicts of interest, approval of the Corporation's Board of Directors or the Corporate Governance Committee will be required prior to any employee of the Corporation acting or agreeing to act as an officer or director of any reporting issuer, or any private issuer engaged in the natural resources business (including exploration and production, midstream and services entities).

III.    Corporate Opportunities

Employees, officers and directors are prohibited from taking opportunities discovered through the use of corporate property, information or position and from using corporate property, information or position for either personal gain or to directly compete with Sinopec Daylight.

IV. Confidentiality

Employees must maintain the confidentiality of information entrusted to them by Sinopec Daylight or that otherwise comes into their possession in the course of their employment, except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated. The obligation to preserve confidential information continues even after you leave the Corporation.

Confidential information includes all non-public information that may be of use to competitors, or harmful to Sinopec Daylight or its customers, if disclosed. It also includes information that suppliers and customers have entrusted to us.

V.  Protection and Proper Use of Corporate Assets

All employees should endeavour to protect the Corporation's assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, carelessness and waste have a direct impact on Sinopec Daylight's profitability. Any suspected incidents of fraud or theft should be immediately reported for investigation.

Corporate assets, including but not limited to funds, products or computers, may only be used for legitimate business purposes or other purposes approved by management. Corporate assets may never be used for illegal purposes.

The obligation to protect Sinopec Daylight assets includes proprietary information. Proprietary information includes any information that is not generally known to the public or would be helpful to our competitors or harmful to our competitor's positions.   Examples of proprietary information are
 


intellectual property, business and marketing plans and employee information. The obligation to preserve proprietary information continues even after you leave the Corporation.

VI. Privacy

In conducting our business, Sinopec Daylight needs to maintain records and information about its employees, contractors, vendors, landowners, shareholders and other business associates. We value and respect the rights of these individuals to personal privacy. We collect and use only information that is necessary for us to administer our business effectively, efficiently and in a safe and reliable fashion. This information is only for the appropriate internal use of Sinopec Daylight and will not be shared or used for other purposes unless permitted or required by law.

VII.    Insider Trading, Selective Disclosure and Trading Activities

Employees must not trade securities based on the material, non-public information for their benefit or the benefit of others. Material information is any information that, if known, might influence a reasonable investor’s investment decision to buy, sell, or hold securities. Non-public means any information that has not been released by Sinopec Daylight for public dissemination and which is intended to remain confidential until such authorized dissemination. Employees should not share material, non-public information with anyone outside Sinopec Daylight (including family members) until it has been made public, regardless of how the information may or may not be used. For clarity, these restrictions apply to trading in securities of any other company (including,  but not limited to, competitors, suppliers, service providers and customers) if an employee learns of any material, non- public information about that company during the course of his/her employment with Sinopec Daylight.

Employees must adhere to blackout restrictions of which they are notified. Trading blackouts are implemented to ensure that "insiders" do not have the advantage of information that has not been announced to the general investing public. Applicable securities laws dictate the protection of the entire investing public to ensure fairness. Should an individual breach insider trading rules they may be subject to significant penalties by regulatory authorities.

Should you have any questions or require clarification regarding trading restrictions, it is your responsibility to direct these questions to our Chief Legal Officer prior to trading any securities.

Employees must report violations or misuse of material, non-public corporate information to our Chief Legal Officer immediately.

For further information please refer to the Disclosure, Confidentiality and Trading Policy.

VIII.   Fair Dealing

Each employee should endeavour to deal fairly with the Corporation's customers, suppliers, competitors and employees. No employee should take unfair advantage of anyone through illegal conduct, manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts or any other unfair-dealing practice. In all circumstances, employees of the Corporation are expected to provide suppliers and customers with a full and fair opportunity to do business with the Corporation, and to ensure decisions relating to the business of the Corporation are made on a commercial basis.

IX. Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations

Compliance with both the letter and spirit of all laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business is critical to our reputation and continued success. All employees must respect and obey the laws of the cities, provinces and country in which we operate and avoid even the appearance of impropriety.
 


Employees who fail to comply with this Code will receive disciplinary measures, which may include termination of employment with Sinopec Daylight.

X.  Compliance with Competition and Anti-Trust Laws

The Corporation believes in fair and open competition, and strictly adheres to the requirements of competition and anti-trust laws. These laws generally prohibit collusion between firms and other unfair business conduct that would lessen competition.

Employees must avoid all actions that are or could reasonably be construed as being anti-competitive, monopolistic or otherwise contrary to such laws; employees are expected to perform their duties in accordance with such laws and follow guidelines established by Sinopec Daylight. Because of the importance and complex nature of this area of law, employees should consult with Sinopec Daylight's Chief Legal Officer to obtain assistance and guidance on competitive issues and to address specific situations and initiatives as they arise.

XI. Compliance with Environmental Laws

The Corporation is sensitive to the environmental, health and safety consequences of its operations. Accordingly, the Corporation will strictly comply with all applicable Federal and Provincial environmental laws and regulations in all aspects of our work. The Corporation will monitor its environmental performance and will look for ways to reduce and prevent waste, emissions, spills and other releases from our operations so as to minimize, wherever possible, our impact on the environment. If any employee has any doubt as to the applicability or meaning of a particular environmental, health or safety regulation, he or she should discuss the matter with a member of the Corporation's senior management.

XII.    Discrimination and Harassment

We value the diversity of our employees and are committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment. Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. Harassment is usually defined as any behaviour, often recurrent in nature, which negates an individual's dignity and the respect to which they are entitled because the behaviour is offensive, embarrassing or humiliating. Harassment may take different forms, such as any one or more of the following non-exhaustive list of examples:

    unwelcome remarks or jokes about subjects like one's race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, age, sex (including pregnancy or childbirth), sexual orientation, marital status, family status, physical or mental disability or a conviction for which a pardon has been granted;
    displaying discriminatory or other offensive pictures, posters, e-mails or screen displays;
    sending or receiving messages or files, by e-mail or any other form of delivery, that are illegal, sexually explicit, abusive, offensive, profane, unwelcome, or that may adversely affect Sinopec Daylight's image;
    sexual harassment;
    unnecessary physical contact, such as touching or pinching;
    threats, intimidation or verbal abuse; or
    any other action that may reasonably be perceived as offensive or disrespectful.

Employees are encouraged to speak out when a co-worker's conduct makes them uncomfortable, and to report harassment when it occurs. We will respond promptly to all complaints to ensure they are resolved quickly and fairly. We will impose sanctions (up to and including termination of employment) on any employee who violates this policy regardless of his or her position with Sinopec Daylight. Employees in positions of authority – such as supervisors – will be subject to more serious consequences to reflect the seriousness of abusing their position and the negative impact their actions may have on
 


the work environment. As an employee, it is your duty to report incidents of harassment to your supervisor or Sinopec Daylight's Human Resources department.

XIII.   Safety and Health

We are all responsible for maintaining a safe workplace by following safety and health rules and practices. Sinopec Daylight is committed to keeping its workplaces free from hazards. Please report any accidents, injuries, unsafe equipment, practices or conditions immediately to a supervisor or other designated person. Threats or acts of violence or physical intimidation are prohibited.

Sinopec Daylight is committed to maintaining a drug-free and alcohol-free workplace. Drinking alcoholic beverages is prohibited while on duty or on the premises of Sinopec Daylight, except at specified Sinopec Daylight-sanctioned events. Possessing, using, selling or offering illegal drugs and other controlled substances is prohibited in all circumstances while on duty or on the premises of Sinopec Daylight. Smoking in the workplace, except in designated areas, is also prohibited. Likewise, employees are prohibited from reporting for work while under the influence of alcohol or any illegal drug or controlled substance. Such policy is essential to Sinopec Daylight and the safety of all Sinopec Daylight personnel.

XIV.    Accuracy of Sinopec Daylight's Records and Reporting

Honest and accurate recording and reporting of information is critical to our ability to make responsible business decisions. Sinopec Daylight's accounting records are relied upon to produce reports for the Corporation's management, securityholders, creditors, governmental agencies and others. Our financial statements and the books and records on which they are based must accurately reflect all corporate transactions and conform to all legal and accounting requirements and our system of internal, financial and disclosure controls.

All employees have a responsibility to ensure the accuracy and completeness of records, reports and communications and the appropriateness of classification of transactions as to accounts and accounting periods. All transactions must be supported by the appropriate documentation and comply strictly with prescribed accounting policies, audit procedures and other  such controls, including the controls intended to be maintained pursuant to our Whistleblower Policy and Procedures.

Sinopec Daylight believes in open access for its auditors and independent engineers to all of its documents and records and full and open communication with its auditors and independent engineers with respect to their engagement.

Business records and communications often become public through legal or regulatory investigations or the media. This applies to communications of all kinds, including email, voice mail or inter-office memos and therefore employees should avoid recording inappropriate notes or comments that would embarrass them or Sinopec Daylight should they be made public. Records should be retained and destroyed in accordance with the Sinopec Daylight's records retention policy.

XV. Use of E-Mail and Internet Services

E-Mail systems and Internet services are provided to help us do work. Incidental and occasional personal use is permitted, but never for personal gain or any improper purpose. You may not access, send or download any information that could be insulting or offensive to another person, such as sexually explicit messages, cartoons, jokes, unwelcome propositions, ethnic or racial slurs, or any other message that could be viewed as harassment. (see "Discrimination and Harassment" herein) Also remember that "flooding" our systems with junk mail and trivia hampers the ability of our systems to handle legitimate Sinopec Daylight business and is prohibited.
 


Your messages (including voice mail) and computer information are considered Corporate property and you should not have any expectation of privacy. Unless prohibited by law, Sinopec Daylight reserves the right to access and disclose this information as necessary for business purposes. Use good judgment, and do not access, send messages or store any information that you would not want to be seen or heard by other individuals. Always protect your work-related user IDs and passwords and keep your security cards safe. You must never allow unauthorized people to use or access them.

Employees are prohibited from making copies of software purchased and owned by Sinopec Daylight in violation of copyright or trademark laws, or from using software that does not belong to Sinopec Daylight. Employees are prohibited from installing applications and/or utilities on Sinopec Daylight's computer system (including those downloaded from the internet) and for which the use has not been expressly authorized by Sinopec Daylight. Employees are expressly prohibited from loading or running any executable e-mail attachments, regardless of their source or content, without having the files reviewed and approved by Sinopec Daylight.

Violation of these policies may result in disciplinary actions up to and including termination from the Corporation.

XVI.    Political Activities and Contributions

We respect and support the right of our employees to participate in political activities of their choice provided that their involvement is kept separate from their role as an employee. Employees must take care to represent their views as their own and not the Corporation's.

There are laws and regulations pertaining to political contributions made both in dollars and in "kind". Where Sinopec Daylight deems appropriate, it may occasionally choose to make such contributions but only when authorized by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and only when the contribution is legal and appropriate for corporations such as Sinopec Daylight.

XVII.   Gifts and Entertainment

The exchange of gifts and entertainment is a common practice in most business communities and is designed to develop and foster goodwill among business partners. Accepting gifts and entertainment can cause problems when they compromise, or appear to compromise, our ability to make fair and objective business decisions. No gift or entertainment should be accepted, or offered, if it will unfairly influence a business relationship.

There are many factors that influence whether a gift or entertainment is normal and customary. Gifts or entertainment should be moderate, reasonable and in good taste, be of a style or value commonly accepted for business occasions and should not be unusual for the recipient's job or community. The exchange must not create an obligation or sense of obligation and should occur infrequently.

Business entertainment can present situations where discretion is required since some commonly accepted business invitations can include recreational opportunities or event tickets that are of significant value. In these cases the recipient should ensure that there is a valid business development reason for attending and that there will be representation from other business executives at the event. If the invitation is for an event where the value being received may be significant, officer approval is required, or in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, approval by the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
 


XVIII.  Intellectual Property

Any invention, including the development of computer software, created by an employee within the performance of his duties, during or outside working hours, belongs to Sinopec Daylight. All employees must disclose to Sinopec Daylight any information relating to the invention and cooperate with the registration by Sinopec Daylight of a copyright or patent thereon. Whenever necessary, the employee must also assign any right he may have to Sinopec Daylight.

XIX.    Requests for Information from the Media and Public

The Investor Relations department is the only department authorized to work with the media directly. When Sinopec Daylight provides information to the news media, Sinopec Daylight has the obligation to report accurately and completely all related material facts. In order to ensure that Sinopec Daylight complies with its obligations, employees who are contacted by the media for information regarding Sinopec Daylight' business activities and plans, financial information, or Sinopec Daylight’s position on public issues must refer the request to the Investor Relations department. Likewise, all requests from the media for interviews must be directed to Investor Relations. Employees who have participated in Sinopec Daylight' media training program must consult with Investor Relations before answering any questions from any member of the media.

XX. Public Speaking and Publishing Articles

Speeches and articles offer excellent opportunities for Sinopec Daylight and its employees to present topics, ideas, and information of interest to business and professional audiences. A speech or article on a professional topic written by an employee for delivery to an audience or publication represents Sinopec Daylight. Speeches and articles must be approved by the Investor Relations department prior to the speaking engagement or submission for publication.

XXI.    Social Networking and Blogs

Employees have the right to create personal blogs and postings on social networking websites. However, online misconduct can be grounds for discipline, even if it does not occur during business hours or using Sinopec Daylight's resources. Inappropriate content for online employee postings includes, but is not limited to, the following:
    Sinopec Daylight’s confidential or proprietary information
    Information concerning Sinopec Daylight or employees that would violate this Code or any other Sinopec Daylight policies, including the Privacy Policy
    Negative comments about Sinopec Daylight or employees, or that would harm the reputation of Sinopec Daylight or its employees

XXII.   Community Involvement

Sinopec Daylight directly and through its employees contributes to the general well-being and improvement of towns, cities, and regions where it has operations. Sinopec Daylight provides support to worthwhile community programs in areas such as social welfare, health, education, and arts and culture to promote the development of positive relationships in the areas where we have business interests. Sinopec Daylight also encourages the recruitment of qualified local personnel where practical. All Sinopec Daylight community involvement and requests for corporate contributions must go through the Investor Relations department.

While Sinopec Daylight encourages employees to participate in charitable organizations and other community activities of their choice, these outside activities should not interfere with job duties and as such prior approval from your manager should be requested. Approval from your manager should be requested when participation is supported by Sinopec Daylight and when utilizing Sinopec Daylight
 


resources (including work time, e.g. days of caring). Where participation is on personal time and does not conflict with job duties then approval  is not required.  No employee may pressure another employee to express a view that is contrary to a personal belief or to contribute to or support political, religious, or charitable causes. Employees are encouraged to speak out when a co-worker's conduct makes them uncomfortable, and to report harassment when it occurs.

XXIII.  Reporting of any Illegal or Unethical Behaviour

We have a strong commitment to conduct our business in a lawful and ethical manner. Employees are encouraged to talk to supervisors, team leads or other appropriate personnel when in doubt about the best course of action in a particular situation and to report violations of laws, rules, regulations or this Code. We prohibit retaliatory action against any employee who, in good faith, reports a possible violation. It is unacceptable to file a report knowing it to be false.

XXIV.   Waivers of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

Any waiver of this Code for senior officers or directors will be made only by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors and will be disclosed as required by applicable law or regulation.

XXV.    Disciplinary Action

This Code is intended to help employees conduct themselves in a manner consistent with our values. Employees may face disciplinary action if they:
    Violate this Code
    Encourage or help other employees to violate this Code
    Condone other employees who violate this Code
    Fail to report a Code violation
    Retaliate against any employee who reports a Code violation in good faith
    Fail as  an officer, director, manager, or supervisor to  take appropriate steps  to  ensure compliance with this Code

Disciplinary action may include one or more of the following:
    A warning
    A written reprimand
    Mandatory reimbursement of losses or damages
    Suspension
    Demotion
    Termination of employment with Sinopec Daylight
    Referral for criminal prosecution or civil action

Management has the discretion to determine the level and type of discipline that is appropriate in any given circumstance.

XXVI.   Compliance Procedures

This Code cannot, and is not intended to, address all of the situations you may encounter. There will be occasions where you are confronted by circumstances not covered by policy or procedure and where you must make a judgment as to the appropriate course of action. In those circumstances we encourage you to use your common sense, and to contact Anthony Lambert, President & Chief Executive Officer, Steve Nielsen, Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Cameron Proctor, Chief Legal Officer or Michael Laffin, Chairman of Sinopec Daylight's Corporate Governance Committee, for guidance. Their numbers are (403) 213-5306, (403) 213-5312, (403) 536-5266 and (403) 260-9600, respectively.
 



CODE OF ETHICS FOR SENIOR OFFICERS

At Sinopec Daylight Energy Ltd. and its subsidiaries ("Sinopec Daylight" or the "Corporation"), we have always recognized the value and importance of conducting all of our affairs with trust and integrity. For Sinopec Daylight's excellent reputation to be maintained we require the highest standards of professional and ethical conduct from all of our employees, but in particular our Senior Officers are expected to set exemplary standards as an example to all employees.

This Code of Ethics for Senior Officers shall apply to Sinopec Daylight's President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Legal Officer and any other individual who is considered a "Senior Officer" of Sinopec Daylight or the equivalent thereof. Compliance with both this Code of Ethics and Sinopec Daylight’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is a requirement of continued employment.

Standards of Conduct

To the best of their knowledge and ability, the Senior Officers shall:
    Avoid making any investment, interest or association that interferes with the independent exercise of judgment in the Corporation's best interest. The Senior Officers non-material personal investments in publicly traded companies of less than one per cent of the shares outstanding will not be considered an investment that by itself would interfere with the Corporation's best interests. The Senior Officers will disclose to the Board of Directors any other investments that might interfere or might reasonably be thought to interfere with the independent exercise of judgment in the Corporation's best interests.
    Avoid acting as an officer or director of any other reporting issuer, or any private issuer engaged in the natural resources business (including exploration and production, midstream and services entities) without the consent of the Board of Directors or the Corporate Governance Committee.
    Keep and present all of the Corporation’s accounting records in accordance with the appropriate laws and regulations.
    Comply with both the spirit and intent of all applicable government laws, rules and regulations.
    Provide full, fair, accurate and timely disclosure in all of the Corporation’s public reports and documents.
    Ensure that all records fairly and accurately reflect the Corporation’s assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and do not contain any false or misleading information.
    Ensure that all transactions are supported by accurate documentation in sufficient detail and recorded correctly.
    Provide all the information required by the Corporation’s independent auditors.
    Comply with applicable Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards and the Corporation’s system of internal accounting controls.
    Maintain the skills and knowledge necessary to perform their functions.
SK Group
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: South Korea
Type of Organisation: Chemical - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

SK, THE COMPANY, PRACTICING ETHICAL MANAGEMENT
Basing on SKMS as a basis of corporate governance, SK Holdings creates values for customers, group members, shareholders, and business partners. Through these values, we will make an contribution to the economic and social development and the happiness of all human beings. In order to achieve this, we define codes of ethics and act upon this criteria in decision making and judgment.
GROUP MEMBERS 
As a member and representative of SK Group, we take pride in ourselves and sincerely conduct our duty.
By drawing a sharp line between private and public matters, we conduct our duty impartially and transparently.
We create corporate culture that intensifies mutual respect between members and encourages members to work with enthusiasm and initiative.
RESPONSIBILITY
FOR
SHAREHOLDERS 
In order to create shareholder value, we increase corporate value by reinforcing transparency and efficient management.
Through efficient management basing on continuous innovation, we maximize corporate value and share the results with shareholders.
Board of directors ensure transparent management and we respect shareholders’ righteous demands and suggestions.
We draw up all the management documents according to the law and make an announcement on them to protect shareholders’ benefit in accordance with the law.
BUSINESS
PARTNERS 
We make an effort to achieve mutual development and cooperation with our partners.
We provide fair trade opportunities to our partners and don’t abuse our superior position to force our partners to do improper business. We also pursue mutual benefits and development.
CUSTOMERS 
We gain customers’ trust by providing satisfactory services and achieve development along with customers.
We respect customers’ various opinion and apply their opinion to company management.
We protect customers’ information and property in accordance with the law and company regulation.
SOCIETY 
We contribute not only to the economic development but also to the society through social and cultural activities and try our best to manage the company in accordance with the social norm.
We actively participate in corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities to make all the social members live in happiness.
We observe the local laws and respect the culture and tradition of the communities.
BYLAW 
This code of ethics comes into effect on October 1, 2008.
Code of ethics guideline is presented in order to help members to interpret code of ethics correctly and observe it.

SOCAR (The State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic)
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Azerbaijan
Type of Organisation: Chemical - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Regulation On
SOCAR  Turkey Code Of Conduct
To Whom Does SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct Apply?
We all, as family members of SOCAR Turkey, are obliged to read, understand and implement SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct. SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct shall apply to all employees of SOCAR Turkey*. All of us have to comply with SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct and the principles stated under its attachments, report the suspected circumstances and cooperate with the examinations carried out by our Company regarding the potential violations.
*“SOCAR Turkey” or “Company” means SOCAR Turkey Enerji A.Ş. and each of its group companies.
Which Laws Should We Be Subject To?
In principal, all of our activities shall be carried out in compliance with Turkish laws. Moreover, the Company’s activities may be subject to other countries’  laws and regulations since SOCAR Turkey operates in international markets and conducts business in cooperation with international companies. If any hesitation arises on the business conduct in other countries, the laws and regulations applicable in the country where the business be carried out, should be followed up. If the laws and regulations applicable in the country and/or countries which the business be carried out, may cause unfavorable results in terms of the ethical values which has been adopted by SOCAR Turkey to carry out activities in the international platform, we should find solutions in line with our Code of Conduct and procedures. If you hesitate which rules should be taken into consideration, you absolutely have to consult with Legal Department.

The employees of SOCAR Turkey should comply with the Company’s regulations in force and to be in force in the future.
 What are Our Fundamental Principles and Goals?
Our values include the principles and vision which bring us to our existing position and define the position that we desire to reach. In this respect, we believe in maintaining our heritage of honesty, accuracy and doing the right thing. We also believe that the way we conduct business is as important as the business we carry out. Working rightfully and with high business ethical standards is the absolute method to conduct business for SOCAR Turkey and adopting certain principles has major importance for adopting this method.
Priority of Human Rights
SOCAR Turkey gives value to human rights and conducts its activities in a respectful way to human rights as stated in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and fundamental agreements of International Labor Organization. In this regard, certain standards envisaged to preserve human rights have been defined; and it is expected that our suppliers and business partners comply with these standards:
Protection of the Environment and Security in the Workplace
SOCAR Turkey intends a cleaner environment and working in the workplace in a most secure manner. While achieving these goals, Golden Rules of SOCAR Turkey are as follows:
All of us have duties to minimise effects of our activities on the environment. We can minimise effects of our daily activities by doing following:
Moreover, it is possible that occupational injuries and diseases be prevented and ceased. No production target, cost saving, saving of time or competitive advantage is important against any injuries. In this respect, we believe that all of us have the following duties:
 Use of Company Resources
All of us have a duty that we must use Company resources in an effective and the most efficient manner. Company resources contains, including but not limited to, the following:
 To protect these resources, all of us must
It is allowed that (i) computers are used for the purposes of personal email or search in the internet, (ii) photocopy and fax machines and telephones are used for personal purposes; however, in each case, provided that such uses must not hinder you from your work responsibilities and constitute misuse.
Anti Corruption
Our Company has a zero tolerance towards bribery, insider trading, market corruption, fraud or money laundering. Facilitation payments are also deemed as bribery and such payments should not be definitely made regardless of the name under which it is called. Moreover, we must avoid any real or potential conflicts of interest (or any relation that may be perceived as conflict of interest), and not offer or accept inappropriate gifts or hospitality.
We must not forget that even the groundless corruption claims may harm our reputation and business.
a.  Bribery and Corruption
To offer, receive, request or accept any kind of payment, gift or favouritism so as to affect the outcome of a work in an inappropriate manner is deemed as bribery.

Bribery and corruption can be carried out directly in respect of the relations with trading corporations and enterprises including public officials or joint ventures, or indirectly through third parties such as agents and shareholders of joint venture. Although facilitation payments are legal in some countries, such payments are included in corruption and bribery activities as per our country’s legislation.
You must not offer, give, request or accept personal payment, gift or favouritism in return for privileged treatment or so as to gain a business advantage. In case that you involve in a bribery or corruption act,
you may be (i) subject to disciplinary punishment, (ii) dismissed, (iii) subject to legal proceedings, and even (iv) imprisoned by courts.
In addition, although you do not personally carry out such actions, you and SOCAR Turkey may be held responsible for these acts even if you ignore suspicions of bribery and corruption.
b.  Relations with Public Officials
Gifts and hospitality offered to the public officials including travel expenses is a very sensitive issue. In some countries, there are very strict restrictions on value and quality of the gifts and entertainment that public officials may accept. To offer gifts to a public official is illegal under Turkish law.
Furthermore, if you do not audit the third parties who are in the business relationship with the public officials for and on behalf of SOCAR Turkey in accordance with the procedures or even if you ignore the results of this audit, SOCAR Turkey or you may be held responsible for the acts of third parties.
In relationships with public officials, the below mentioned principles must be strictly complied:
If you hesitate whether or not an employee is a public official under the Code of Conduct and the relevant local legislation, you should definitely consult with your Legal Department.
c.  Presents and Hospitality, Donations, Gifts, Entertainment and Other Benefits
Accepting or giving of gifts, entertainment and other benefits may lead to potential, perceived or actual conflict of interest, or even violate laws. “Gifts, entertainment and other benefits” means anything that constitutes benefits. This includes but not limited to food, accommodation, discounts, rewards, travel, tickets, money in any form and shares.
During your work, gifts, entertainment or any other kind of benefits may be offered by customers, suppliers or other business contacts. You may think that accepting this kind of benefits will not affect
your behavior, however some people may feel forced to do something in return therefor. This situation may affect their ability to give objective business decisions in the interests of our Company. In order to avoid such situation, giving or accepting of the gift should be determined by the manager’s approval.
Generally, the gift or entertainment that may be accepted from or be given to people who do or seek to do business with SOCAR Turkey is the following:
In the event that a gift with a higher value than the limitations set forth in SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct has been given, relevant persons are obliged to report the situation to the Compliance Department. The Compliance Department will prepare an opinion and submit it for approval by SOCAR Turkey President, if the situation was reported to the Compliance Department. Upon the approval of SOCAR Turkey President, the said person will be allowed to accept gifts by making necessary records. In the event that the gift is proposed to SOCAR Turkey President, the Compliance Department will submit its opinion for approval by the Chairman.
The principles described above is also valid in the reverse direction so that no individual acting on behalf of the Company may offer gifts, hospitality exceeding the reasonable limits or to pay other expenses that would violate these principles or enter into agreement to pay for it in their dealings with customers, suppliers and other parties. In this regard, you should comply with the code of conduct of relevant person or company in respect of the monetary limitations, if any.
If more than one gift has been proposed within a short period by the same person or institution, all gifts will be deemed as a single gift and evaluated under the numerical limitations described above.
In case of any hesitation in accepting or giving of gifts, entertainment and other benefits, you may consult with your department manager and the Compliance Department.
Hospitality such as social events, meals or entertainment may be accepted if there is a clear business reason for the Company. The cost of any hospitality must be kept within reasonable limits. Travel, accommodation and other expenses made for the relevant person regarding this hospitality are always paid by the Company.
All matters concerning acceptance or offer of gifts, hospitality and similar benefits must be discussed and agreed between the relevant person and his/her manager, unless there is no suspicion that such benefits may be acceptable in accordance with the principles set forth above. Even if no preapproval is required, the manager should be informed to ensure the transparency.
You should comply with the principles and procedures set out in SOCAR Turkey Bribery and Anti- Corruption Policy for donations made to a foundation or an association/charity, goods, properties, currencies etc. or free sponsorship or expenses to develop any community.
d.  Money Laundering
Money laundering is the process of concealing the illicit resource or structure of money or assets through using legitimate business activities. Including the financing of terrorism, the use of legal resources to support criminal activities is also a money-laundering activity and this activity is a crime subject to imprisonment sanction and our Company does not tolerate these activities under any circumstances.
In order to prevent our resources to be abused for money laundering or funding criminal activities by criminals, you must find out the business activities and background of the parties those we conduct a business relationship and carry out investigations on their other business partners so as to determine the money and assets resources and their destination.
You should immediately report any suspicious transactions or incidents concerning money laundering to the Compliance Department. If you fail to do so, you may be (i) subject to penalty or (ii) dismissed or (iii) imprisoned by courts.
e.  Political Activities and Payments
Your political activities and payment have the risk of being deemed as actions taken by SOCAR Turkey. It therefore may harm our business or reputation.
Employee is free to participate in democratic political activities; however this should be conducted without making reference to or using relationship with the Company. Employees should exercise particular care when on international assignments on behalf of the Company. Any declaration, explanations and donations which will create the impression that SOCAR Turkey has a relationship with any political party must be avoided even if this is in reasonable limits.
Conflicts of Interest
In the event that your personal relationships, participation in activities that take place outside SOCAR Turkey or the share that you owned in another organisation, have effect on your decisions or they may be perceived so, you are faced with a conflict of interest.
Our responsibility is to avoid conflicts of interest. You should not permit your personal and private thoughts to influence your decisions taken within SOCAR Turkey. Since a conflict of interest may affect your decision-making ability or be perceived so, it may harm your reputation as well as SOCAR Turkey’s reputation. If you fail to meet the requirements set forth in these rules or any laws or regulations, it may result in disciplinary punishment or termination of your employment contract.
As conflict of interest may arise with respect to the activities within SOCAR Turkey, you should pay attention to conflict of interest in the activities and relationships conducted outside the Company.
The examples of potential or actual conflict of interest outside the Company are listed as follows:
Any Employee, who finds itself in a conflict of interest situation, shall report the matter to his/her manager who shall report the same to the Compliance Department. Employees should report the conflict of interest before their employment. Authorized personnel from Human Resources Department will specifically examine this matter during the interview with candidates. However, the potential conflict of
interest does not necessarily disqualify an individual from being seconded or employed by the Company as long as such conflict of interest has been disclosed at the time of the nomination to the Company or it has arisen after accepting a secondment or employment. In all cases, the manager and the Ethics Committee shall carefully consider each situation and then, determine whether it would need to take any measure to mitigate actual or potential conflict of interest.
Financial Control Systems
a.  Financial Reporting
All financial information must be disclosed in a complete, correct and timely manner. Reporting financial information require the highest standards of trustworthiness and honesty. The integrity of the Company’s accounting and financial records depends on the accuracy and completeness of the fundamental information supporting the entries made in the Company’s book and accounts. Fraudulent or false reports can cause serious harm to the Company and its investors’ reputation.
Unreliable financial reports may be subject to fines and imprisonment for the related people and the Company. Any false or incorrect information is strictly prohibited for the Company’s external financial reports.
In order to protect our financial integrity, all employees must pay maximum attention to the following issues:
If you notice any mistake, fraud or fault in the reported information, inform immediately Internal Audit Department.
b.  Record Keeping

We are required to record and keep the Company records showing our activities and transactions in a correct and honest manner under the applicable legislation during the period required under law or recordkeeping calendar.
Examples for Company’s record:
Pursuant to applicable laws, records should be booked in a regular and suitable manner for auditing and kept for a period of time specified by the law, and each of us has to comply with these rules. This means that the records should be correct and real. Any inaccurate, misleading and false records should not be entered in the Company record and books. All monetary transactions must be recorded in a complete and full manner to the Company accounting books. Employees shall not conceal, change, remove or prevent Company information or any materials regarding any lawsuit or investigation conducted by governmental/regulatory authority. This condition also includes circumstances where it is possible that a lawsuit or investigation might be filed or conducted in future.
Likewise, employees shall not be able to remove or destroy records prior to specified date without permission. All records which do not require to be kept under the laws should be informed to the accounting and Compliance Department and destroyed in a proper manner.
Confidential Information
Our enterprises conduct business in a complex and competitive market. Each employee should be aware that the confidential information and trade secrets need to be protected as the Company assets. Confidential information must be held in confidence and you should exercise reasonable care so as to prevent unconscious or inconvenient statement.
Examples for Confidential Information:
Any work-related confidential information and statement should not be disclosed to anyone outside the Company including family members unless (i) the statement is subject to written confidentiality agreement, (ii) it has legitimate business purpose and (iii) it has been granted appropriate authorization. Necessary measures should be taken so as not to use confidential information against the Company and this information should not be used in any way other than the fulfilment of person’s duties. The confidential information should be shared in the Company and among your colleagues on a need-to- know basis.
The disclosure of Company acquisitions, organisational changes, relations with customers and sellers, financial information, employee’s personal information (address, phone number, employee identification number and etc.) or other sensitive information to a party outside the Company may harm the competitive
position of the Company and its shareholders. We therefore need to pay attention to our conversations in public places so as to protect confidential information. In addition, it is absolutely unacceptable to obtain benefits through leaking any confidential information and/or documents belonging to SOCAR Turkey’s shareholders within the scope of “Insider Trading”.
All officialstatementsshallbeannouncedtoinvestors, partnersandpublicopinionthroughthedepartments determined by the Company in line with the equality principle and in a complete, simultaneous and comprehensible manner.
In addition, all files, records and reports which you made or obtained in your business life at SOCAR Turkey are owned by the Company.
Domestic
and Foreign Trade
a.  Relations with Customer and Supplier
We intend to conduct the business with customers and our suppliers in a fair manner and in compliance with the legislation. For this purpose,
    Do not mislead, misrepresent, deceive customers or suppliers nor take unfair advantage from them.
    Contact with your department manager before assigning the suppliers.
    Conduct  the  transactions  of  purchase  from  suppliers  and  sales  to  customers  on  the  basis  of appropriate issues such as quality, price, reliability, sustainability and commitment to human rights.
    Behave equal and fair to all potential suppliers while purchasing good or service on behalf of the Company.
    Do not speak to suppliers stating that our relationship may be affected by circumstances such as personal favours, gifts, charitable donations.
    Do not offer gift, entertainment or assistance in order to take or keep a business in your hands.
    Notify our Company’s suppliers that they must comply with all relevant local and national laws, rules, regulations and requirements during the manufacturing and distribution of products and supplies and providing services.
    Select customers, suppliers and contractors by taking into account the list of banned parties regarding terrorism, money laundering and trade sanctions, export controls, and the anti-boycott laws.
b.  Competition Law
Anti-monopoly laws protect free enterprise and prohibit the conducts limiting trade or restricting fair competition. These laws cover each level of business life. Price fixing, market sharing or the conspiracy of bid rigging or creating a monopoly or practices aimed to protect the monopoly position has been prohibited by competition laws. Since anti-competitive conduct may harm the functioning and reputation of our Company, anti-competitive practices are unacceptable. These are considered as illegal activities in many countries and may be subject to heavy fines and imprisonment.
To comply with these prohibitions and not to face with these sanctions;
    You should not reach an agreement with the competitors of SOCAR Turkey on the determination of price or any element of price (discounts, reductions etc.).
    You should not reach an agreement with other companies operating in the market on not competing in certain markets or for certain customers or accounts.
    You should not take any actions which may be considered as tenders or bid rigging, and reach an agreement with your competitors to boycott any customers or suppliers.
    You should not enter into agreement with competitors to fix or reduce production, capacity or efficiency. In addition, you should not enter into agreement with independent intermediaries or sellers to determine the minimum selling price of products.
    You should not hire the competitor company’s employee to obtain confidential information nor encourage their employees so as to provide confidential information about their employers.
    In the event that any information related to a competitor is proposed to you, which you believe may be classified as confidential, you must ask as to whether the information is confidential and how it has been obtained. If you are not sure that the information has been obtained legally, you must contact with the Compliance Department.
    In the event that the material is written and has been marked as “confidential” “private” or “personal” or you otherwise understand that the information is confidential, you must not accept the material and immediately note what has happened and contact with the Compliance Department.

c.  Export Controls and Sanctions
The legislation related to Export Controls and Sanctions provides the countries with control authority regarding the sale, delivery, electronic transfer or notice of information, software, goods and services to cross- borders. Export includes not only traditional delivery systems but also electronic transfer via negotiations and visual examination.
We must thoroughly review the potential effects of export control laws and sanctions to a transfer prior to realization of such transfer of goods, technology and software to cross- borders. Please kindly note that controls and sanctions (or embargoes) may be imposed against countries, legal persons, individuals and goods. You must know which of these controls and sanctions may introduce restrictions or prohibitions to your work.
If you do not comply with the relevant controls and sanctions, our Company may face with criminal charge, fine and loss of export privileges. As a result, you may be (i) dismissed, and (ii) subject to fines or (iii) imprisoned by governmental and legal authorities.
You must act in compliance with the instructions set forth in the questionnaires of SOCAR Turkey Integrity Due Diligence (“Questionnaires”) with respect to the sanctioned countries.
d.  Import Controls and Sanctions
The legislation related to Import Controls and Sanctions provides the countries with legal control authority regarding the sale, delivery, electronic transfer or notice of information, software, goods and services under a country’s own jurisdiction. Import controls may be imposed against SOCAR Turkey or you as an individual.
Please make sure that all required taxes, duties and levies are duly paid during the import of goods and services and satisfy all import requirements. Do not bring the restricted goods into the country without notification. If you have suspicions regarding an import activity, you must seek for legal advice. Prohibited goods must not immediately be imported. Acting in violation of import controls legislation and sanctions may harm work by causing operational delays. Further, our Company may face with certain legal proceedings such as fine or loss of privilege. As a result, you may be (i) dismissed, and (ii) subject to fines or (iii) imprisoned by governmental and legal authorities.
You must act in compliance with the instructions set forth in the Questionnaires with respect to the sanctioned countries.
Our Responsibilities and Individual  Examination
SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct sets forth the rules how we must act and we conduct our work. Acting in compliance with these rules is the principal responsibility of our employees. In this respect, all SOCAR Turkey employees shall be responsible for:
Replying the following questions may help us to understand as to whether any conduct violates SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct:
 If your answers to such questions create an opinion that there is an inconvenient situation, you have discovered a potential problem that you are required to report. If you act in a certain manner and speak up about your concerns, you will prevent the violation of SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct and protect the values of the Company.
Asking Questions or Reporting Problem Resources
It is of high importance for all of us that SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct is duly complied with. It is crucial that the violations are reported in order to determine as to whether there is any problem to be fixed. Therefore, we must report the potential violations of SOCAR Turkey Code of Conduct. We should not wait for the violation of our own benefits to report the possible breaches. SOCAR Turkey encourages its employees to report the violations of which they witness. These reports may be sent to etik@socar. com.tr via electronic mail or to the Report and Complaint Box* located in Levent Mahallesi Çarşı Caddesi Karakol Sokak No:14 Beşiktaş with number Levent PTT PK:96 via closed envelope. The Compliance Department is responsible for the placement of the Report and Complaint Box in a proper location where it is not possible to identify the whistle-blower and make sure that only authorized personnel will have access to the documents in these boxes.
The report should include detailed information and documents regarding the alleged conduct contrary to ethical principle. The documents should be attached to the report. The alleged misconduct should be described tangibly by specifying person, date and place. If the report is made orally to the Compliance Department, it should be recorded in a minute.
*The Report and Complaint Box shall be controlled by the Compliance Department every Friday.
Society of Chemical Industry (SCI)
Region: WEOG
Country: UK
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

1 Joanne Lyall, 26 Aug 2011 SCI NN185 
 SCI NN185 
Code of Ethics for SCI Members 
1 Objectivity, Integrity and Selflessness 
Members must at all times act only in the best interests of SCI. They should not disclose information they obtain through SCI to other bodies that might benefit from it to the detriment of SCI or its component parts, or be the source of information to others who might benefit. Unauthorised disclosure could also expose SCI to potential risk of liability under confidentiality agreements with partners. Members should endeavour to exercise their decision-making, influencing and representational roles related to SCI on the basis of fact, merit and recognised constitutional procedure. 
2 Member Conduct 
Members must endeavour to promote the overall best interests of the Society; to inspire others to take pride in it; and to work within its ethos and constitutional provisions. 
They should conduct themselves in a manner which does not damage or undermine the reputation of the organisation, or its staff individually or collectively, and should not take part in any activity which is in conflict with the objects or which might damage the reputation of the organisation. 
They should not engage in gossip or innuendo that may undermine the effectiveness of the organisation, or of those elected or appointed to further such effectiveness through the proper exercise of their judgement or conduct of their duties. Members should not denigrate another member of SCI publicly and particularly not in front of SCI staff. Members agree to raise any concerns about the actions or views of another Member, or an SCI employee, constructively, without unnecessary personal comments. 
They must at all times avoid actions or statements towards Members, prospective Members, staff and visitors that might be construed as discrimination, harassment, victimisation or bullying on the basis of their gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age (“protected characteristics”). The following gives further details on the different forms of discrimination: 
    Discrimination against an employee. This is generally prohibited unless there is a specific legal exemption. Discrimination may be direct or indirect and it may occur intentionally or unintentionally. 
    Direct discrimination occurs where someone is treated less favourably because of one or more protected characteristics, 
    Indirect discrimination occurs where someone is disadvantaged by an unjustified provision, criterion or practice that also puts other people with the same protected characteristic at a particular disadvantage. For example, a requirement to work full time puts women at a particular disadvantage because they generally have greater childcare commitments than men. Such a requirement will need to be objectively justified. 
    Harassment related to any of the protected characteristics is prohibited. Harassment is unwanted conduct that has the purpose or effect of violating someone's dignity, or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for them. 


    Victimisation is also prohibited. This is less favourable treatment of someone who has complained or given information about discrimination or harassment, or supported someone else's complaint. 

Member communications with the Secretariat which go beyond agreed day to day activities (particularly contentious issues or complaints) should be routed via the Directors rather than directly to a staff member. 
Members should take care to note that close personal relationships between a member and a staff member which go beyond the boundaries of a professional relationship may place one or both parties in a difficult position, and have consequences way beyond their respective areas of responsibility. Similar considerations apply to strong personal antipathy. 
3 Membership of SCI Interest Groups 
Members who join SCI Interest Groups agree to abide by the terms of the SCI Membership Rules and any additional group procedures which may be approved by MAC from time to time. 
4 Accountability 
Members must recognise that incorporation by Royal Charter and as a Registered Charity places SCI, and especially the Executive Director, under legal constraints over and beyond those applicable to regular companies through regulatory and fiscal compliance. 
5 Resolution of Problems 
Members must use their best endeavours at all times to work with the Executive Director and other Directors (or Chairman of the Board of Trustees if the Executive Director is involved personally) to resolve any actual or potential conflict or problem arising. If it cannot be resolved, or if it is felt to be so serious as to risk compromising the overall stability or probity of the organisation, it is the duty of those concerned to ask for the matter to be placed on the agenda for a meeting of the Board of Trustees. On that occasion (or in any sub-committee formed for the purpose) those concerned should disclose all relevant facts, and be given the opportunity to defend their conduct. 
6 Consequences of non-compliance 
Members should be mindful of the following section of the SCI Rules: 
“If a complaint of misconduct about a Member of the Society is made to the Board of Trustees and that complaint, the Member first, having been given the opportunity to resolve the issue with the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and failing that second, having been given an opportunity of being heard in his own behalf before the Board of Trustees, is in the opinion of the of the Board of Trustees sufficiently established, the Board of Trustees may, by resolution as hereinafter provided, suspend the Member from rights of membership for such a period as the Board of Trustees may determine, or the Board of Trustees may in like manner determine that his membership shall be terminated and thereupon he shall cease to be a Member. If the Member of the Society is also a Member of the Board of Trustees then he shall, in addition to being suspended or having his membership of the Society terminated, also have his membership of the Board of Trustees suspended or terminated as the case may be.” In the event of it being brought to the notice of the Board of Trustees that any Member has been guilty of misconduct or has been: 
    found guilty of any criminal offence involving fraud or dishonesty; or 
    committed to prison for any other criminal offence; 

then the Board of Trustees may, by resolution as hereinafter provided, order his name to be removed from the Register, and thereupon he shall cease to be a Member. 
2 Joanne Lyall, 26-8-11 SCI NN185 3 Joanne Lyall, 26-8-11 SCI NN185 
A resolution of the Board of Trustees as aforesaid shall not be passed unless not less than two-thirds of the Members of the Board of Trustees eligible to vote in favour of such a resolution. The Member of the Board of Trustees found guilty of misconduct shall not be eligible to vote in respect of such a resolution. 
The powers in this rule may not be delegated by the Board of Trustees.” 
7 Acceptance of the Code of Ethics 
Upon joining SCI, Members are required to accept the above Code of Ethics and agree to abide by it for the duration of their Membership of the Society.

Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC)
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Members of the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) are expected to exhibit the highest standards of integrity and professionalism. To ensure a strong and successful organization, our activities require honesty and equity and should reflect well on the Society. In the spirit of promoting Environmental Quality Through Science®, members should strive to be good stewards of environmental resources and effective and objective contributors to the environmental discussion globally as well as locally.
Professional behavior and integrity are also expected of every attendee (members and non-members alike) of SETAC meetings, workshops and activities.
Each member and all persons participating in SETAC meetings and activities are bound by this Code of Ethics and should:
    Conduct themselves responsibly, objectively, lawfully and in a non-discriminatory manner.
    Ensure that presentations during Society-sponsored events and other communications are restricted to, and based on scientific principles and made in a respectful manner.
    Respect the rights, interests, and contributions of professional colleagues.
    Respect intellectual property and provide appropriate attribution for all intellectual property arising elsewhere.
    Declare and avoid conflicts of interest
    Not knowingly make false or misleading statements, or engage in activities that could be viewed as defamatory about a professional colleague or an organization.
    Recognize and respect confidentiality while being honest and forthcoming in all issues of public record.
    Objectively and clearly communicate scientific methods, understanding and knowledge in a professional manner
    Conduct research and related activities so as to avoid or minimize adverse environmental effects of that research, and ensure compliance with legal requirements for protection of researchers, human subjects, and research organisms and systems.
SETAC Animals in Research Guidance Statement
Consistent with our long-standing interests in environmental protection, conservation, education, research, and the general well-being of organisms (animals and plants), the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry supports the following principles (in accordance with applicable country-specific laws and regulations).
    Respect for all life forms and systems is an inherent characteristic of environmental professionals; the respectful treatment of organisms is both an ethical and a scientific necessity.
    Methods designed to reduce, refine, or replace the need for experimental organisms are advocated.
    In the absence of data, research with experimental organisms is the most reliable means of identifying toxic properties of chemicals and other environmental stressors and for establishing risks to environmental health.
    Care must be exercised to avoid introduction of exotic/non-indigenous organisms to natural environments.

Solvay
Region: WEOG
Country: Belgium
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Code of Conduct Solvay Group
How to use
this Code of Conduct
This Code applies to every Solvay em- ployee wherever Solvay operates or con- ducts its business. Third parties acting on behalf of Solvay are also expected to act within the framework of the Code. In joint ventures, Solvay will use its best efforts to ensure that the principles of this Code are respected.
Every employee should be familiar with the contents of this Code of Conduct and act in accordance with its terms. This Code will be applied in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Solvay Code of Conduct provides general guidance and is not an exhaus- tive document anticipating every situation employees may face in their day-to-day business. Rather, the Code highlights the guiding principles that form the basis of the Group’s policies.
The Group will provide appropriate train- ing to ensure that familiarity.
Employees are encouraged to ask ques- tions when they need clarity and to speak up when they have ethical or compliance concerns.
 Solvay values Ethics and Integrity
Solvay Code of Conduct
 Ethics and Integrity
in the Workplace
Solvay employees are respected by the Group and are expected to share common goals and values with their colleagues and collaborate as team members.
Health and Safety in the Workplace
High safety standards and the constant improvement thereof are an integral part of the Solvay work ethic and com- mitment. The Group provides safe and healthy working conditions on its sites for both its employees and contractors and recognizes the need for an appropriate work-life balance. Each employee is ex- pected to contribute to the safety of the workplace by being alert and aware of the rules, policies and procedures and by re- porting any unsafe condition.
Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination
Workplace integrity applies equally to the Group and its employees. It means that all employees should respect the distinc- tions of our individuality. Solvay provides equal opportunity and encourages diver- sity at every level of employment. To be successful as an international company representing a global community, that di- versity should be reflected in what Solvay does. All employees should respect one another and should move towards the Group’s objectives collectively and col- laboratively without regard to race, eth- nicity, religion, national origin, gender,
sexual orientation, disability, age, family status, or any other basis. Unlawful dis- crimination will not be tolerated.
Harassment-Free Environment
Solvay strives to maintain a work envi- ronment in which people are treated with dignity, decency and respect. That envi- ronment should be characterized by mu- tual trust and the absence of intimidation, oppression and exploitation. Employees should be able to work and learn in a safe and stimulating atmosphere. The accom- plishment of this goal is essential to the Group’s mission.
Solvay will not erate harassme
of any kind.
 Solvay values its Employees
Solvay Code of Conduct
 An Open Dialogue with Employees
Solvay is committed to maintaining trust- ing and constructive relations between its employees and their representatives. This exchange is particularly important as the employees are the key players in Solvay’s responsible performance. Solvay encour- ages dialogue between employees, their representatives and management to as- sist employees to identify actual or poten- tial situations that might lead to a violation of the Code and to find solutions to pre- vent such situations.
Data Privacy
t“o
Solvay is committed respecting data
 privacy and will take all appropriate measures to ensure personal data is maintained securely
and protected.”
Personal data can only be collected to serve legitimate purposes. It must be used only for the purpose for which it was initially collected and must not be kept longer than permitted by law.
Conflicts of Interest
Employees shall exercise fair, objective and impartial judgment in all business dealings, placing the interests of Solvay over any personal interests in matters re- lating to the business of the Group.
Employees must not use their positions to obtain direct or indirect personal benefits. In order to protect Solvay and themselves against even the appearance of a conflict of interest, employees are encouraged to disclose to their managers any relation- ship they have with an actual or potential Solvay customer, supplier or competitor. More generally, employees must avoid being involved in any transactions or ac- tivities that could be considered to be, or give rise to, a conflict.
Solvay recognizes that employees may, subject to any applicable employment contract, take part in legitimate financial, business or other activities outside their jobs in the Group, provided that these do not create actual or even apparent con- flicts of interest.
Use of Company Resources
Employees working time shall be dedicat- ed to the pursuit of the Group’s interest, protecting its assets and making reason- able use of its resources. Solvay under- stands that its employees may make use of Solvay resources from time-to-time to address minor personal matters that can- not be handled outside of normal work hours. Should personal use of Solvay’s resources be authorized, that use must
 not be excessive, incorporated for per- sonal gain or illegal purposes or other- wise abused. Any permitted permanent acquisition of Solvay resources  must be accomplished through appropriate management channels and with proper documentation.
Communication with the Public
Although Solvay respects the private lives and social relations of its employees, any public reference to the Group or its em- ployees, personally or through any social media, must be consistent with the terms of this Code of Conduct and the Group’s policies.
Ethics and Integrity
in Doing Business
 Solvay is committed to maintaining a fair and honest business environment for its employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, competitors, and the public in general.
Financial Records and Accounting
Solvay accurately informs its sharehold- ers of all actions, events or decisions rea- sonably likely to have a significant effect on their investment decisions. Solvay’s books and records must always reflect actual financial information consistent with International Financial Reporting Standards. Employees must ensure that the records are accurate and properly re- tained in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Insider Trading

 Employees who have access to inside information shall not buy or sell any se- curities based on that information or communicate it to someone else who
then trades in those securities. This con- cerns securities of Solvay, of companies belonging to the Solvay Group and of third parties. Inside information means information that has not yet been made public and which if it were made public would likely have a significant impact on the trading price of the securities. Solvay strongly opposes any form of insider trad- ing and all employees must strictly com- ply with the applicable Group policy on Insider Trading.
Proprietary and Confidential Information
Information that is deemed  confiden- tial should be protected from disclosure both within and outside of the Group. Employees must take precautions to guard Solvay’s proprietary information from disclosure to competitors and oth- er unauthorized third parties. In addition to respecting Solvay’s confidential infor- mation, employees must also take care to protect the confidential information of third parties (for example, customers and suppliers) which comes into their posses- sion by reason of their positions within Solvay.
Solvay Code of Conduct
 Fair Competition
Solvay values fair and open competition. Solvay wants to succeed ethically and with the highest integrity. The Group does not enter into business arrangements that distort, eliminate or discourage competi- tion, or that provide improper competitive advantages.
Solvay strives to succeed fairly and honorably.
International Trade
Solvay observes and supports all laws and regulations governing the export and import of products, services and infor- mation throughout the world. In particu- lar, the Group respects regulations that govern doing business in embargoed countries or with embargoed persons or embargoed organizations.
Supply Chain
Solvay respects its business partners and honors its binding commitments. The Group expects its vendors, suppliers and
customers to obey all laws and regula- tions governing their activities, both within their own worksites and the Group’s. They are also encouraged to adhere to the spirit of this Code of Conduct in their operations.
Solvay applies a worldwide structured, fair and ethical process to select and evaluate its suppliers in order to build a mutually beneficial relationship with them. Our suppliers are selected on the basis of objective criteria such as quality, reliability, competitive pricing and ethical behavior.
 
Gifts, Entertainment and Anti-Bribery
Exchanging token gifts and entertainment with customers or suppliers is permitted in accordance with the applicable Group Policy. However, the Group prohibits brib- ery in any form. Solvay and its employ- ees do not use gifts or entertainment to gain competitive advantage. Under no circumstances is the exchange of cash or cash equivalent (e.g., stock or voucher) acceptable. Facilitation payments are not permitted by Solvay. Disguising gifts or entertainment as charitable donations is a violation of this Code and the applicable Group Policy and is not accepted.
 Solvay values
Ethical Business Conduct
Solvay’s External Commitments
Solvay endorses the “Responsible Care World Charter.” This endorsement com- mits Solvay to continuous progress, mov- ing it beyond the regulatory standards and requirements to which it is lawfully subject and with which  it  must  com- ply to that optimal level of performance where solutions are achieved lawfully and responsibly.
Solvay is also a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) initiative. Adherence to the ten principles of the UNGC is expect- ed of each signatory and each is required to report and to communicate on a yearly basis with key stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. These principles are in keeping with Solvay’s commitment to be at the forefront of ethi- cal sustainability.
 Solvay values Positive Contributions to Society
Human Rights
Solvay is committed to respecting and supporting human rights with regard to its employees, the communities in which it operates and its business partners as ex- pressed in the internationally recognized standards including the U.N. Universal Declaration on Human Rights. In addition to the broad range of human rights and workplace issues addressed elsewhere in this Code of Conduct and in the Group’s policies, Solvay prohibits any kind of child labor or forced labor. Solvay takes seri- ously any indication that human rights are not properly protected within its sphere of influence or that it may be complicit in any human rights violation. Employees are ex- pected to understand the human rights issues that may be at stake in their work- places and should prevent any violation of these rights.
Charitable Activities and Corporate Philanthropy
Solvay strives to make positive contribu- tions in the communities in which it oper- ates and encourages its employees to do the same. Solvay’s corporate philanthro- py is principally directed to educational, scientific and humanitarian endeavors across the globe. Employees wishing to make donations in the name of Solvay
– whether by financial contributions or volunteer activities – must receive pre-ap- proval from the appropriate management representative.
 
Political Contributions 5.
The Group does not take part in party
political activities nor does it make corpo- rate donations to political parties or can- didates. However, the Group will engage in a constructive debate with public au- thorities on subjects of legitimate interest to Solvay. Only those employees specif- ically authorized to do so will carry out these activities. In this respect, the Group may support non-governmental organi- zations. Solvay respects the freedom of its employees to make their own political decisions. Any personal participation or involvement by an employee in the politi- cal process must be on an individual ba- sis, in the employee’s own time and at the employee’s personal expense.
How to Speak Up
The first and best place for employees to Speak Up is with their individual manager or supervisor. In fact, part of the manager/ supervisor’s job is to listen to employees, understand their questions and concerns and act on them appropriately.
In addition, employees may seek help from:
    any other manager or supervisor;
    a member of the local or regional HR or Legal Department;
    the regional Compliance Officer, Internal Audit or the regional General Counsel.
In cases of serious breach, employees may speak directly with the Head of Eth- ics and Compliance or the Group Gener- al Counsel. As an alternative, employees may wish to use the Ethics Helpline, maintained by a private third party and operated in accordance with local law.
No Retaliation
In no event shall an employee who makes a report be subject to retaliation. Any per- son, regardless of position, who engages in retaliatory behavior will be subject to disciplinary action.
Provided that reports are made in good faith, no action will be taken against an employee raising a concern that eventu- ally proves to be inaccurate. Abusive ac- cusations will not be tolerated.
The Group expects every employee to support this Code and encourages every employee to Speak Up for what’s right when there is something wrong.
No matter how concerns are reported – whether anonymously where legally per- mitted or by name, in person or through the Solvay Ethics Helpline – employees can be assured confidentiality will be maintained to every extent possible. Lim- ited disclosures will be made only to fa- cilitate investigation or where required by law. All reports will be investigated and all investigations will be conducted in a man- ner that reflects Solvay’s values, its re- spect for the rights of all parties involved and applicable law.

 Solvay values the Individual Voices of its Employees
Training
and Awareness
In order to ensure understanding and compliance, all employees will receive a copy of this Code of Conduct and specif- ic training on its implementation.
Employees should review their behavior in light of this Code and determine whether changes are required. At the same time, all managers and supervisors should actively communicate about this Code, monitor compliance and act as positive role models.
Employees will eive further trai
relating to specific ethics and compliance issues when relevant for their function.
”
Enforcement
Violations of the Code of Conduct will not be tolerated. Employees are encouraged to speak up when behavior inconsistent with the Code is observed and managers are expected to deal with such reports and, if necessary, to refer them to the ap- propriate member of management and/or compliance officer. Violations can lead to disciplinary action consistent with appli- cable laws and regulations.
Independent Compliance Function
At Solvay there is an independent func- tion to manage and oversee the deploy- ment of the Code of Conduct and the accompanying Ethics & Compliance pro- gram. This Ethics & Compliance function, comprised of in-house lawyers, consists of regional compliance officers under the direction of the Head of Ethics & Compli- ance. The Head of Ethics & Compliance reports to the Group General Counsel.
 The Ethics & Compliance function is responsible for
    identifying the Group’s risks in the domain of Ethics & Compliance and proposing mitigating actions;
    developing an effective communication and training program to inform and educate employees and managers about the Code of Conduct and to address identified risks;
    supporting and helping employees to resolve questions and issues relating to Ethics & Compliance;
    investigating, either alone or with the assistance of other functions,
all reports that have been brought to their attention;
    making practical proposals to prevent violations and minimize damage to the Group, its employees or third parties;
    providing input to management on appropriate disciplinary actions; and
    proactively monitoring and reporting on the effectiveness of the Ethics & Compliance program, with a view towards continual heightening the commitment to ethics and integrity within Solvay.
  Solvay values your commitment to Compliance
What’s the right thing
Ask for advice.
Don’t do it.
8.
to do?
Ask for advice. Ask for advice.
     
Don’t do it.    Don’t do it.
Other questions that can help you to make a decision:
    Could my behavior harm Solvay’s reputation?
    How would my action look as a headline in tomorrow’s newspaper?
    How would my family or friends view my decision?
    Would I be comfortable if someone treated me the same way?
    Am I asking the right people for input?
If you are unsure about at to do, contact your
manager or the resources listed in the Code.
Do I need to know all the policies?
You do not need to know all the poli- cies word for word. You need to know the policies that are relevant for you and where you can find them.
My partner works for one of our suppliers. In my job at Solvay,
I have dealings with that supplier. Will this be a problem?

It may be a problem so you should dis- close this relationship to your manag- er immediately and discuss means to avoid any actual conflict of interest. For example, if your respective positions would be required to interact for busi- ness purposes, you may need to have someone else handle that work. Even if there is only a potential conflict, disclo- sure should be made to avoid the ap- pearance of a conflict.
Am I allowed to use social networking during office hours?
Occasional use of social networking is permissible for personal purposes while at work. However, time spent on social networking sites should be within rea- sonable limits and should not interfere with your work. When using social net- working, even on your own time and/or from your personal resources, be certain that you do not reveal any proprietary or confidential information of Solvay and/ or its business partners.  All  referenc- es made to the Group or its employees must be consistent with this Code of Conduct and the Group’s policies.
One of my colleagues was making a joke regarding nationality during the lunch break. I felt offended. Should I do something about it, or should I accept that these are standard jokes?
Jokes that center upon characteristics of diversity, such as nationality, race or culture, are offensive and  should  not be tolerated by anyone. If you are in the presence of persons making such jokes, tell them that you do not find the jokes funny and that these jokes should not be exchanged in the work environ- ment. If the behavior continues, report it to your manager or any other resources listed in the Code of Conduct.
I found the price list of one of our competitors attached to an
email of a customer. What should I do? Can I use this price list?
Even if you didn’t ask for it, you cannot use this information and you should im- mediately inform the Legal Department.
The customer should not have sent this information and probably breached confidentiality obligations vis-a-vis the competitor. At the same time, the cus- tomer has put Solvay in jeopardy as having this information could arguably give us an unfair competitive advantage. Together with the Legal Department you will decide how to return the information to the customer explaining that this in- formation cannot be shared with Solvay.
A supplier offers me two tickets to a concert but he cannot attend the concert with me.
Can I accept the tickets?
If the supplier cannot attend the concert with you, the tickets can only be consid- ered as a gift and not as entertainment. If the value of the tickets is within the acceptable reasonable value of gifts ap- plicable to your country, the gift may be accepted. Otherwise, you need to ob- tain prior approval from your manage- ment hierarchy.
 Can I put a future invoice into this year’s budget to help
my GBU attain its targets?
No. You must always record invoices and sales orders in the proper account- ing period. It is forbidden to manipulate sales orders or invoices for processing during the next or previous financial period.
My contact at a supplier’s company told me about a new product in confidence. Can
I buy stock in that company?
No, until the information you have is publicly available, you cannot buy the supplier’s stock or advise any third par- ty to do so. You currently have “inside information” which prevents you from trading in that stock.
An ex-colleague asks me for some materials we worked on when he was with Solvay.
Can I give him the materials?
You cannot give the materials to the ex-employee as the materials are Solvay’s property and may also contain Solvay’s confidential information. Every employee has a duty to guard Solvay’s assets and confidential information from disclosure to unauthorized third parties.
I was told to pay the customs officials some extra money  in order to speed up the
customs declarations process. Should I do this in the best interest of the company?
Payments to government officials to gain competitive or other advantage for the company are illegal in most coun- tries and in violation of Solvay’s policy. Such payments should not be made, re- gardless of local custom. If you receive such instructions, report the situation to your regional Compliance Offi  er.
Why report a concern?
If you suspect or know of a concern and remain silent, you subject the company and its stakeholders to risk and the situ- ation could get worse. Speaking up pro- tects Solvay’s reputation and preserves your own self-respect.
Reporting concerns in good faith is the right thing to do.
I suspect a compliance violation in my GBU. What should I do?  If I report it will I get in trouble?
You should report it to your individual manager or supervisor, member of the local or regional HR, Legal Department, regional Compliance Officer or through the Solvay Ethics Helpline. You will not be reprimanded or subject to retaliation if you report what you suspect in good faith.
SQM (Sociedad Quimica y Minera S.A.)
Region: GRULAC
Country: Chile
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

SQM is committed to complying with the applicable laws and regulations of all countries in which the company has operations or business activities. SQM understands that customs and traditions may vary from country to country, but this can never weaken the company's resolve to act in accordance with the highest standards of integrity and honesty.

Integrity and ethical behaviour have always been key components of the way SQM acts in business. Conducting its affairs under a high sense of integrity is crucial for maintaining the trust and credibility of Shareholders, Directors, Executives, Employees, Customers, Suppliers, Governmental Agencies, Oversight Entities, Communities, Stakeholders, and other persons, institutions or organizations who deal with the company.
All SQM Directors, Executives, and Employees must:

  Foster and maintain an environment of transparency in the tasks that pertain to their work positions and level of responsibility.

  Base their work and administrative relationships on a foundation of integrity and ethics.

  Expect and demand that all SQM Directors, Executives and Employees carry out their activities with integrity.

  Foster compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

  Work with dedication; strive for perfection, integrity, and honesty; and adopt SQM's values and policies.
Sumitomo Chemical
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Japan
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Our Code of Conduct 
1. We will respect Sumitomo’s business philosophy and act as highly esteemed “good citizens.” 
2. We will observe national and international laws and regulations and will carry out activities according to our corporate rules. 
3. We will develop and supply useful, safe products and technologies that will contribute extensively to the progress of society. 
4. We will take voluntary and active initiatives to achieve zero-accident and zero-injury operations and to preserve the global environment. 
5. We will conduct business transactions based on fair and free competition. 
6. We will endeavor to make our workplace sound and energetic, and every one of us will make efforts to become a professional who has advanced skills and expertise in his or her field of responsibility. 
7. We will actively communicate with our various stakeholders, such as shareholders, customers, and regional communities. 
8. We, as a corporate member of an international society, will esteem the culture and custom in each region around the world and contribute to the development of those regions. 
9. We will strive for the sound development of our Company through business activities conducted in accordance with the guiding principles stipulated hereinabove.
Sun Chemical 
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics


Code of Ethics
Sun Chemical is committed to an established system of values and ethical conduct in all of its relationships – with suppliers, customers and those people we come into contact with every day.  We do everything we can to operate in a manner that is sustainable and ethical – economically, socially and environmentally – in the best interests of our employees, stakeholders and business relationships.
We support this commitment through a Code of Conduct which all of us at Sun Chemical are charged with upholding.  Our Code of Conduct can be viewed at the links provided below.  We encourage you, our business partners, to come to us with your concerns if you believe we have not met our stated ethical commitments.  We will discuss these issues and challenges and work together with you to find solutions.
If you wish to discuss with us a question, problem or concern involving the ethical conduct of Sun Chemical, you may contact any of the executives identified in our Code of Conduct in the section “Who Can Answer My Questions” or by using our Ethics Line at www.EthicsPoint.com, or in the United States, Canada or Puerto Rico by calling the Ethics Point toll free number 1-866-730-7932.

Tata 
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: India
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

All employees (including whole-time directors) of the company are expected to adhere to the following tenets of the code:
Clause:1
National interest
The Tata Group is committed to benefit the economic development of the countries in which it operates. No Tata company shall undertake any project or activity to the detriment of the wider interests of the communities in which it operates.
A Tata company’s management practices and business conduct shall benefit the country, localities and communities in which it operates, to the extent possible and affordable, and shall be in accordance with the laws of the land.
A Tata company, in the course of its business activities, shall respect the culture, customs and traditions of each country and region in which it operates. It shall conform to trade procedures, including licensing, documentation and other necessary formalities, as applicable.

Clause:2
Financial reporting and records
A Tata company shall prepare and maintain its accounts fairly and accurately and in accordance with the accounting and financial reporting standards which represent the generally accepted guidelines, principles, standards, laws and regulations of the country in which the company conducts its business affairs.
Internal accounting and audit procedures shall reflect, fairly and accurately, all of the company’s business transactions and disposition of assets, and shall have internal controls to provide assurance to the company’s board and shareholders that the transactions are accurate and legitimate.
All required information shall be accessible to company auditors and other authorised parties and government agencies.There shall be no willful omissions of any company transactions from the books and records, no advance-income recognition and no hidden bank account and funds.
Any willful, material misrepresentation of and / or misinformation on the financial accounts and reports shall be regarded as a violation of the Code, apart from inviting appropriate civil or criminal action under the relevant laws. No employee shall make, authorise, abet or collude in an improper payment, unlawful commission or bribing.

Clause:3
Competition
A Tata company shall fully support the development and operation of competitive open markets and shall promote the liberalisation of trade and investment in each country and market in which it operates. Specifically, no Tata company or employee shall engage in restrictive trade practices, abuse of market dominance or similar unfair trade activities.
A Tata company or employee shall market the company’s products and services on their own merits and shall not make unfair and misleading statements about competitors’ products and services. Any collection of competitive information shall be made only in the normal course of business and shall be obtained only through legally permitted sources and means.

Clause:4
Equal opportunities employer
A Tata company shall provide equal opportunities to all its employees and all qualified applicants for employment without regard to their race, caste, religion, colour, ancestry, marital status, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality, ethnic origin or disability.
Human resource policies shall promote diversity and equality in the workplace, as well as compliance with all local labour laws, while encouraging the adoption of international best practices.
Employees of a Tata company shall be treated with dignity and in accordance with the Tata policy of maintaining a work environment free of all forms of harassment, whether physical, verbal or psychological. Employee policies and practices shall be administered in a manner consistent with applicable laws and other provisions of this Code, respect for the right to privacy and the right to be heard, and that in all matters equal opportunity is provided to those eligible and decisions are based on merit.

Clause:5
Gifts and donations
A Tata company and its employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits that are intended, or perceived, to obtain uncompetitive favours for the conduct of its business. The company shall cooperate with governmental authorities in efforts to eliminate all forms of bribery, fraud and corruption.
However, a Tata company and its employees may, with full disclosure, accept and offer nominal gifts, provided such gifts are customarily given and / or are of a commemorative nature. Each company shall have a policy to clarify its rules and regulations on gifts and entertainment, to be used for the guidance of its employees.

Clause:6
Government agencies
A Tata company and its employees shall not, unless mandated under applicable laws, offer or give any company funds or property as donation to any government agency or its representative, directly or through intermediaries, in order to obtain any favourable performance of official duties. A Tata company shall comply with government procurement regulations and shall be transparent in all its dealings with government agencies.

Clause:7
Political non-alignment
A Tata company shall be committed to and support the constitution and governance systems of the country in which it operates.
A Tata company shall not support any specific political party or candidate for political office. The company’s conduct shall preclude any activity that could be interpreted as mutual dependence / favour with any political body or person, and shall not offer or give any company funds or property as donations to any political party, candidate or campaign.

Clause:8
Health, safety and environment
A Tata company shall strive to provide a safe, healthy, clean and ergonomic working environment for its people. It shall prevent the wasteful use of natural resources and be committed to improving the environment, particularly with regard to the emission of greenhouse gases, and shall endeavour to offset the effect of climate change in all spheres of its activities.
A Tata company, in the process of production and sale of its products and services, shall strive for economic, social and environmental sustainability.

Clause:9
Quality of products and services
A Tata company shall be committed to supply goods and services of world class quality standards, backed by after-sales services consistent with the requirements of its customers, while striving for their total satisfaction. The quality standards of the company’s goods and services shall meet applicable national and international standards.
A Tata company shall display adequate health and safety labels, caveats and other necessary information on its product packaging.

Clause:10
Corporate citizenship
A Tata company shall be committed to good corporate citizenship, not only in the compliance of all relevant laws and regulations but also by actively assisting in the improvement of quality of life of the people in the communities in which it operates. The company shall encourage volunteering by its employees and collaboration with community groups.
Tata companies are also encouraged to develop systematic processes and conduct management reviews, as stated in the Tata ‘corporate sustainability protocol’, from time to time so as to set strategic direction for social development activity. The company shall not treat these activities as optional, but should strive to incorporate them as an integral part of its business plan.

Clause:11
Cooperation of Tata companies
A Tata company shall cooperate with other Tata companies including applicable joint ventures, by sharing knowledge and physical, human and management resources, and by making efforts to resolve disputes amicably, as long as this does not adversely affect its business interests and shareholder value. In the procurement of products and services, a Tata company shall give preference to other Tata companies, as long as they can provide these on competitive terms relative to third parties.

Clause:12
Public representation of the company and the Group
The Tata Group honours the information requirements of the public and its stakeholders. In all its public appearances, with respect to disclosing company and business information to public constituencies such as the media, the financial community, employees, shareholders, agents, franchisees, dealers, distributors and importers, a Tata company or the Tata Group shall be represented only by specifically authorised directors and employees. It shall be the sole responsibility of these authorised representatives to disclose information about the company or the Group.

Clause:13
Third party representation
Parties which have business dealings with the Tata Group but are not members of the Group, such as consultants, agents, sales representatives, distributors, channel partners, contractors and suppliers, shall not be authorised to represent a Tata company without the written permission of the Tata company, and / or if their business conduct and ethics are known to be inconsistent with the Code.
Third parties and their employees are expected to abide by the Code in their interaction with, and on behalf of, a Tata company. Tata companies are encouraged to sign a nondisclosure agreement with third parties to support confidentiality of information.

Clause:14
Use of the Tata brand
The use of the Tata name and trademark shall be governed by manuals, codes and agreements to be issued by Tata Sons. The use of the Tata brand is defined in and regulated by the Tata Brand Equity and Business Promotion agreement. No third party or joint venture shall use the Tata brand to further its interests without specific authorisation.

Clause:15
Group policies
A Tata company shall recommend to its board of directors the adoption of policies and guidelines periodically formulated by Tata Sons.

Clause:16
Shareholders
A Tata company shall be committed to enhancing shareholder value and complying with all regulations and laws that govern shareholder rights.The board of directors of a Tata company shall duly and fairly inform its shareholders about all relevant aspects of the company’s business, and disclose such information in accordance with relevant regulations and agreements.

Clause:17
Ethical conduct
Every employee of a Tata company, including full-time directors and the chief executive, shall exhibit culturally appropriate deportment in the countries they operate in, and deal on behalf of the company with professionalism, honesty and integrity, while conforming to high moral and ethical standards. Such conduct shall be fair and transparent and be perceived to be so by third parties.
Every employee of a Tata company shall preserve the human rights of every individual and the community, and shall strive to honour commitments. Every employee shall be responsible for the implementation of and compliance with the Code in his / her environment. Failure to adhere to the Code could attract severe consequences, including termination of employment.

Clause:18
Regulatory compliance
Employees of a Tata company, in their business conduct, shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations, in letter and spirit, in all the territories in which they operate. If the ethical and professional standards of applicable laws and regulations are below that of the Code, then the standards of the Code shall prevail.
Directors of a Tata company shall comply with applicable laws and regulations of all the relevant regulatory and other authorities. As good governance practice they shall safeguard the confidentiality of all information received by them by virtue of their position.

Clause:19
Concurrent employment
Consistent with applicable laws, an employee of a Tata company shall not, without the requisite, officially written approval of the company, accept employment or a position of responsibility (such as a consultant or a director) with any other company, nor provide freelance services to anyone, with or without remuneration. In the case of a fulltime director or the chief executive, such approval must be obtained from the board of directors of the company.

Clause:20
Conflict of interest
An employee or director of a Tata company shall always act in the interest of the company, and ensure that any business or personal association which he / she may have does not involve a conflict of interest with the operations of the company and his / her role therein.
An employee, including the executive director (other than independent director) of a Tata company, shall not accept a position of responsibility in any other non-Tata company or not-for-profit organisation without specific sanction.
The above shall not apply to (whether for remuneration or otherwise):
 
Nominations to the boards of Tata companies, joint ventures or associate companies.
 
Memberships / positions of responsibility in educational / professional bodies, wherein such association will benefit the employee / Tata company.
 
Nominations / memberships in government committees / bodies or organisations.
 
Exceptional circumstances, as determined by the competent authority.
Competent authority, in the case of all employees, shall be the chief executive, who in turn shall report such exceptional cases to the board of directors on a quarterly basis. In case of the chief executive and executive directors, the Group Corporate Centre shall be the competent authority.
An employee or a director of a Tata company shall not engage in any business, relationship or activity which might conflict with the interest of his / her company or the Tata Group. A conflict of interest, actual or potential, may arise where, directly or indirectly…
 
An employee of a Tata company engages in a business, relationship or activity with anyone who is party to a transaction with his / her company.
 
An employee is in a position to derive an improper benefit, personally or to any of his / her relatives, by making or influencing decisions relating to any transaction.
 
An independent judgement of the company’s or Group’s best interest cannot be exercised.
The main areas of such actual or potential conflicts of interest shall include the following:
 
An employee or a full-time director of a Tata company conducting business on behalf of his / her company or being in a position to influence a decision with regard to his / her company’s business with a supplier or customer where his / her relative is a principal officer or representative, resulting in a benefit to him / her or his / her relative.
 
Award of benefits such as increase in salary or other remuneration, posting, promotion or recruitment of a relative of an employee of a Tata company, where such an individual is in a position to influence decisions with regard to such benefits.
 
The interest of the company or the Group can be compromised or defeated.
Notwithstanding such or any other instance of conflict of interest that exist due to historical reasons, adequate and full disclosure by interested employees shall be made to the company’s management. It is also incumbent upon every employee to make a full disclosure of any interest which the employee or the employee’s immediate family, including parents, spouse and children, may have in a family business or a company or firm that is a competitor, supplier, customer or distributor of or has other business dealings with his / her company.
Upon a decision being taken in the matter, the employee concerned shall be required to take necessary action, as advised, to resolve / avoid the conflict.
If an employee fails to make the required disclosure and the management of its own accord becomes aware of an instance of conflict of interest that ought to have been disclosed by the employee, the management shall take a serious view of the matter and consider suitable disciplinary action against the employee.

Clause:21
Securities transactions and confidential information
An employee of a Tata company and his / her immediate family shall not derive any benefit or counsel, or assist others to derive any benefit, from access to and possession of information about the company or Group or its clients or suppliers that is not in the public domain and, thus, constitutes unpublished, price-sensitive insider information.
An employee of a Tata company shall not use or proliferate information that is not available to the investing public, and which therefore constitutes insider information, for making or giving advice on investment decisions about the securities of the respective Tata company, Group, client or supplier on which such insider information has been obtained.
Such insider information might include (without limitation) the following:
 
Acquisition and divestiture of businesses or business units.
 
Financial information such as profits, earnings and dividends.
 
Announcement of new product introductions or developments.
 
Asset revaluations.
 
Investment decisions / plans.
 
Restructuring plans.
 
Major supply and delivery agreements.
 
Raising of finances.
An employee of a Tata company shall also respect and observe the confidentiality of information pertaining to other companies, their patents, intellectual property rights, trademarks and inventions; and strictly observe a practice of non-disclosure.

Clause:22
Protecting company assets
The assets of a Tata company shall not be misused; they shall be employed primarily and judiciously for the purpose of conducting the business for which they are duly authorised. These include tangible assets such as equipment and machinery, systems, facilities, materials and resources, as well as intangible assets such as information technology and systems, proprietary information, intellectual property, and relationships with customers and suppliers.

Clause:23
Citizenship
The involvement of a Tata employee in civic or public affairs shall be with express approval from the chief executive of his / her company, subject to this involvement having no adverse impact on the business affairs of the company or the Tata Group.

Clause:24
Integrity of data furnished
Every employee of a Tata company shall ensure, at all times, the integrity of data or information furnished by him/her to the company. He/she shall be entirely responsible in ensuring that the confidentiality of all data is retained and in no circumstance transferred to any outside person/party in the course of normal operations without express guidelines from or, the approval of the management.

Clause:25
Reporting concerns
Every employee of a Tata company shall promptly report to the management, and / or third-party ethics helpline, when she / he becomes aware of any actual or possible violation of the Code or an event of misconduct, act of misdemeanour or act not in the company’s interest. Such reporting shall be made available to suppliers and partners, too.
Any Tata employee can choose to make a protected disclosure under the whistleblower policy of the company, providing for reporting to the chairperson of the audit committee or the board of directors or specified authority. Such a protected disclosure shall be forwarded, when there is reasonable evidence to conclude that a violation is possible or has taken place, with a covering letter, which shall bear the identity of the whistleblower.
The company shall ensure protection to the whistleblower and any attempts to intimidate him / her would be treated as a violation of the Code.

Code of Conduct for non-executive directors
 
Non-executive directors of a company will always act in the interest of the company and ensure that any other business or personal association which they may have, does not involve any conflict of interest with the operations of the company and his role therein.
 
Non-executive directors will comply with all applicable laws and regulations of all the relevant regulatory and other authorities as may be applicable to such directors in their individual capacities.
 
Non-executive directors will safeguard the confidentiality of all information received by them virtue of their position.
In terms of Schedule IV to the Companies Act, 2013, independent directors shall have the following duties:
     
To undertake appropriate induction and regularly update and refresh their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the company;
     
To seek appropriate clarification or amplification of information and, where necessary, take and follow appropriate professional advice and opinion of outside experts at the expense of the company;
     
To strive to attend all meetings of the board of directors and of the board committees of which he is a member;
     
To participate constructively and actively in the committees of the Board in which they are chairpersons or members;
     
To strive to attend the general meetings of the company;
     
Where they have concerns about the running of the company or a proposed action, ensure that these are addressed by the board and, to the extent that they are not resolved, insist that their concerns are recorded in the minutes of the board meeting;
     
To keep themselves well informed about the company and the external environment in which it operates;
     
not to unfairly obstruct the functioning of an otherwise proper board or committee of the board;
     
To pay sufficient attention and ensure that adequate deliberations are held before approving related party transactions and assure themselves that the same are in the interest of the company;
     
To ascertain and ensure that the company has an adequate and functional vigil mechanism and to ensure that the interests of a person who uses such mechanism are not prejudicially affected on account of such use;
     
To report concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the company's code of conduct or ethics policy;
     
To act within his authority, assist in protecting the legitimate interests of the company, shareholders and its employees;
     
not to disclose confidential information, including commercial secrets, technologies, advertising and sales promotion plans, unpublished price sensitive information, unless such disclosure is expressly approved by the Board or required by law.

The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (ASBMB)
Region: WEOG
Country: USA
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Members of the ASBMB are engaged in the quest for knowledge in biochemical and molecular biological sciences with the ultimate goal of advancing human welfare. Underlying this quest is the fundamental principle of trust. The ASBMB encourages its members to engage in the responsible practice of research required for such trust by fulfilling the following obligations.
In fulfilling OBLIGATIONS TO THE PUBLIC, it is EXPECTED that: 
    investigators will promote and follow practices that enhance the public interest or well-being;
    investigators will use funds appropriately in the pursuit of their research;
    investigators will follow government and institutional requirements regulating research such as those ensuring the welfare of human subjects, the comfort and humane treatment of animal subjects and the protection of the environment;
    investigators will report research findings resulting from public funding in a full, open, and timely fashion to the scientific community; and
    investigators will share unique propagative materials developed through publicly-funded research with other scientists in a reasonable fashion.
In fulfilling OBLIGATIONS TO OTHER INVESTIGATORS, it is EXPECTED that: 
    investigators will have actually carried out experiments as reported;
    investigators will represent their best understanding of their work in their descriptions and analyses of it;
    investigators will accurately describe methods used in experiments;
    investigators will not report the work of others as if it were their own;
    investigators in their publications will adequately summarize previous relevant work;
    investigators acting as reviewers will treat submitted manuscripts and grant applications confidentially and avoid inappropriate use; and
    investigators will disclose financial and other interests that might present a conflict-of-interest in their various activities such as reporting research results, serving as reviewers, and mentoring students.
In fulfilling OBLIGATIONS TO TRAINEES, it is EXPECTED that: 
    investigators serving as mentors will provide training and experience to advance the trainees’ scientific skills and knowledge of ethical research practices;
    investigators will provide appropriate help in advancing the careers of the trainees;
    investigators will recognize research contributions of the trainees appropriately;
    investigators will encourage and support the publication of results of trainees’ research in a timely fashion without undisclosed limitations; and
    investigators will create and maintain a working environment that encourages cultural diversity.
The Association for Clinical Biochemistry and Laboratory Medicine
Region: WEOG
Country: UK
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

THE CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT OF
THE ASSOCIATION FOR CLINICAL BIOCHEMISTRY AND LABORATORY MEDICINE

1   The Code of Conduct applies to all individual Members of the Association for Clinical Biochemistry and Laboratory Medicine, including Emeritus, Honorary, Fellow, Ordinary, Federation, Retired, Temporarily Retired and Student.
2   All Members having signed an application form agree to abide by the constitution and Bye-laws of the Association as currently in place and amended from time to time.
3   All Members agree that by being appropriately qualified and practising in the UK they are obliged to comply with the Code of Conduct established by their appropriate registration body; the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), the General Medical Council (GMC) or other body, where a registration body exists for that health professional.
4   Members agree to comply with the Code of Conduct of their employer.
5   Members agree that they have a duty to:
a   Exercise their professional skills and judgement to the best of their ability and discharge their professional responsibilities with the highest standards of competence and integrity
b   Conduct themselves honourably in the practice of their profession c Maintain good standards of laboratory and clinical practice
d   Keep their knowledge and skills up to date and shall keep evidence of their continuing professional development to such standards as are required for audit
e   Keep up to date with statutory Codes of Practice which affect their work
f   Keep as confidential any information obtained during the course of their professional practice
g   Respect patients’ trust and not abuse their professional position to establish improper relationships with patients, to put pressure on patients to give or lend money or other benefits, to directly or indirectly recommend treatments or investigations which are not in their interests, withhold appropriate investigations treatments or referrals or put pressure on patients to accept private investigations or treatment
h   Report concerns to employers or registration bodies where they believe that a doctor’s or other colleague’s health, conduct or performance is a threat to a patient
i   Treat colleagues fairly and not make any patient doubt a colleague’s ability, knowledge or skills by making unnecessary or inappropriate comments about them
j   Work constructively within a team, respecting colleagues and communicating and co-operating with other health professionals and all others caring for patients
k   Ensure that where work is delegated, colleagues are of suitable experience and competence to perform the tasks delegated to them and ensure that they are armed with sufficient information to provide a good standard of service
l   Further the interests and objectives of the Association for Clinical Biochemistry and Laboratory Medicine but agree not to give the impression that they are acting or speaking for the Association unless they are authorised to do so
m   Conduct all research with honesty and integrity, following all aspects of research protocol, only accepting payments approved by a research ethics committee, recording results truthfully and maintaining adequate records. Members agree to only make justified claims for authorship and to report evidence of fraud or misconduct in research to an appropriate person or authority.
6   Members agree that they will maintain professional standards at all times, keeping up to date with amendments to this Code of Conduct, the Associations Bye- laws and the Guidance/Regulations of their registration body.
7   This Code is not exhaustive and Members acknowledge that they will always be prepared to explain and justify their actions and decisions to the Association or their registration body if so required.
The Association of the Chemical Profession of Alberta
Region: WEOG
Country: Canada
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Ethics
The ACPA sets standards for competency, fitness and moral character which will ensure that members of the Association meet standards that will protect industry and the public at large and generally reflect credit on the chemical profession and the Association.
Duties of Members to the Public
1.  A member shall have proper regard in all his or her work for the safety, health and welfare of the public.
2.  A member shall protect the public welfare by acting responsibly at all times and by cooperating with government and consumer agencies.
3.  A member shall not be associated with enterprises contrary to the public well being or sponsored by persons of questionable integrity.
Duties of Members to their Employers or Clients
1.  A member shall provide competent and responsible services, and shall only undertake work which he or she is competent to carry out.
2.  A member shall be honest, diligent and conscientious in the performance of his or her duties.
3.  A member shall not be engaged in activities conflicting with his employment, nor accept remuneration for services rendered other than from his or her employer or client, unless his or her employer or client gives written consent to do so.
4.  A member shall set fees which fairly reflect the knowledge, skill and time involved in performing services.
5.  A member shall not disclose confidential information without the express consent of his or her employer or client.
Duties of Members to Themselves, Other Members and the Association
1.  A member shall practice chemistry in accordance with the laws of Alberta and Canada.
2.  A member shall present a good image to the public by maintaining high ethical standards of practice and standards of personal ethics that reflect credit to the Association.
3.  A member shall support the Association and further its aims.
4.  A member shall conduct himself or herself towards other members with fairness and good faith.
5.  A member shall endeavour to co-operate with other members, and will encourage the ethical dissemination of new methods and technical knowledge.
6.  A member shall not deliberately or maliciously attempt to injure the reputation of another member.
7.  A member shall maintain a high level of competence through continuing education.

The Bahrain Society of Engineers
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Bahrain
Type of Organisation: Engineering (including Chemical)
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

BSE CODE OF ETHICS
Engineers uphold and advance the integrity, honor and dignity of the engineering profession by: 
I.     using their knowledge and skill for the enhancement of human welfare; 
II.    being honest and impartial, and serving with fidelity the public, their employers  and clients; and 
III.   striving to increase the competence and prestige of the engineering profession. 
    
The Fundamental Principles
1.    Engineers shall hold paramount the safety, health and welfare of the public in the 
 performance of their professional duties. 
2.   Engineers shall perform services only in the areas of their competence. 
3.   Engineers shall continue their professional development throughout their careers and 
shall provide opportunities for the professional and ethical development of those 
engineers under their supervision. 
4.   Engineers shall act in professional matters for each employer or client as faithful agents 
or trustees, shall avoid conflicts of interest and shall not breach confidentiality.  
5.   Engineers shall build their professional reputation on the merit of their competencies 
and services and shall not compete unfairly with others. 
6.   Engineers shall avoid deceptive acts and shall not abuse public or private office for 
personal gain. 
7.   Engineers shall issue public statements only in an objective and truthful manner. 8.   Engineers shall consider environmental aspects and sustainable development in the 
performance of their professional duties.

The Chemical Society of Nigeria (CSN)
Region: African Group
Country: Nigeria
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Chemistry and Global Sustainable Economic Development: Challenges and Opportunities for the Developing Nations” and observed as follows: 
1.     Chemistry remains central in the drive for global sustainable economic development globally as it plays major roles in food security (production of pesticides, storage, fertilizer, animal feed, etc.), development of renewable energy, pollution prevention/environmental protection and disease control among many other activities of man.
 
2.     Various reports from the United Nations (UNCTAD and GATT) have indicated that above 33% of drug products in the developed countries are derived from higher plants; most of which are tropical plants growing in the equatorial countries like Nigeria
3.     Even as plants and animals continue to play an essential role as sources of medicines in health care, greater demand and increased human population are leading to increased, unsustainable large-scale harvesting of medicinal plants and animal poaching in many parts developing countries, with some wild species already threatened with extinction. This puts practitioners of ethnomedicine (i.e. herbalists and other traditional healers) at a risk of extinction as well!
4.     The world over, the chemical industry is one of the great movers of developed economies. Major products of the chemical industry (basic chemicals, specialty chemicals, consumer products, etc.) produced by different companies drive society. In Nigeria the main chemical industry is the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), while others like UAC, Nasco Group, PZ Cussons, etc. depend a lot on chemicals as inputs for the consumer products they make.
5.     With increase in awareness on the need for sustainable environmental protection, pollution prevention, safer industrial ecology and cleaner production technologies worldwide, there is heightened interest and almost a grand challenge to chemists to develop new products and processes that would satisfy society economically and still remain environment friendly. This is in the purview of Green Chemistry and emphasizes sustainability in the production of goods and services.
6.     The emerging area of nanochemistry has potential applications in many industries and other areas of human endeavours, including, therapeutic drug delivery systems, diagnosis and sensing, environmental protection, water purification, etc.
7.     Despite the importance of Chemistry in the overall development of any economy, its teaching and practice in Nigeria is grossly deficient and plagued by poor infrastructure.
Further to the foregoing observations, the Society realizes that:
a.)  Sustainability necessitates a balance and harmony between our needs and wants and the preservation of a healthy environment and ecosystem.
b.)  To that extent embracing ‘sustainable chemistry’ will maximize the use of resources efficiently through activities such as conservation of energy and non-renewable resources, risk minimization, pollution prevention, minimization of waste at all stages of product life-cycle, with the development of products that are durable and can be reused and recycled.
c.)   Significant progress has already been made in several key research areas such as biosynthesis, biocatalysis, photocatalysis, heterogeneous catalysis, design of safer chemicals and environmentally benign solvents, green corrosion inhibition and microwave assisted polymerization to reduce the environmental impact of chemicals.
d.)  Chemists could apply their skills and develop synthetic technologies to tweak the structure of a natural product for the purposes of enhancing its potency or improving its selectivity and, physical and chemical properties. This approach will serve to preserve our biodiversity.
e.)   The (chemical) industrial fortune of Nigeria can be boosted through massive investment in Chemistry and allied research and development.
f.)    There is an urgent need for a critical look at the way Chemistry is presented and taught at all levels of education in Nigeria in order to make it more responsive to the challenges and opportunities for a developing economy.
 
The Conference, having examined these issues as related to its theme, recommends as follows:
 
i.)                In recognition of the central role Chemistry plays in human life, government should address the relatively low profile of Chemists in our national life by creating greater participation of Chemistry professionals in various policy-making and implementation activities in the country, using capacity building through strategically directed investment in people, research and development for application towards achieving a developed economy on a sustainable basis.
ii.)              Chemists in Nigeria should see self-employment (through manufacturing) as the desirable occupation for Chemistry to take its right place as the pivot for meeting the challenges of sustainable economic development in our nation so endowed with natural resources.
iii.)           Government should review the legal and institutional framework of the Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Equity Scheme (SMEIES) with the view of removing requirements that challenge easy access by starters so as to encourage manufacturing.
iv.)           The Chemical Society of Nigeria (CSN) and the Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria (ICCON) should be encouraged (by way of substantial investment) to aggressively and strategically campaign for the adoption and application of the principles of Green Chemistry in our national techno-socioeconomic life.
v.)              Government should urgently develop a National Policy on Chemistry Education to advance the cause of sustainable development in Nigeria. 
vi.)           Government should, as a matter of urgency, invest in aggressive research, human capacity development, and training and re-training in application of nanochemistry; seeing that this emergent area of chemistry has wide ranging applications, including combating the challenges of (breast) cancer and malaria in Nigeria.
 
In conclusion, the Chemical Society of Nigeria (CSN) pledges its loyalty to the Federal Government of Nigeria and offers its assistance to the government and the private sector in the implementation of the above recommendations.
 1.            The MDGs as contained in the UN Millenium Declaration in 2000 are human development indexed and relate generally to the well-being and welfare of our citizens
 
2.             Chemistry is central to virtually all the MDGs; Chemists are therefore, key to the realization of these goals
 
3.            To that extent there is an urgent need for a critical look at the way Chemistry is presented and taught at all levels of education in Nigeria, to make it more responsive to today’s demands
 
4.            Chemistry is an important vehicle for wealth creation and women empowerment, in light of their central role in bulk production of crops and agro-based food processing
 
5.            Chemistry is playing a major role in unravelling the molecular basis of diseases, making it possible to design disease-specific drugs for therapeutic intervention
 
6.            Chemistry is equally important in ensuring environmental protection and sustainability
 
7.             There is yet to be established an ISO-compliant National Reference Laboratory where all categories of samples could be analyzed
.
8.            The Report on the Environmental Assessment of Ogoniland, which is chemistry-based, is yet to be fully implemented.
 
The Conference, having examined the issues related to the Millennium Development Goals and the role Chemistry is playing and could further play, recommends as follows:
 
1.            Government should, in recognition of the central role Chemistry plays in human life, develop a national policy and evolve a strategy to fund and manage research and development in all areas of Chemistry
 
2.            Government as a matter of national priority should establis National Chemistry Resource Centres, across the country, for skills acquisition and hands-on training for young chemists; these Centres should also be charged with the additional mandate to continually review and manage how chemistry is presented and taught at all levels of education in Nigeria, in collaboration with the Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria, ICCON
 
3.            Government should, also as a matter of priority establish an ISO-compliant reference laboratory, to save the nation the embarrassment of having to go outside the country to carry out analysis of samples in matters of critical national importance, as it was in the Zamfara lead-poisoning saga and the Ogoniland Environmental Assessment
 
4.            Government is urged to, as a matter of extreme urgency, commence the implementation of the recommendations contained in the UNEP report on Environmental Assessment of Ogoniland presented to the Federal Government of Nigeria on the 4th August 2011, and seriously consider the CSN as an important stakeholder in the process
 
5.            Government should provide tax incentives as a way of encouraging industries to increase their support for University fundamental and applied research in areas that urgently appeal to the MDGs.
  Chemistry is the heart of science and science is the foundation on which technology is built.
 
2.    Chemists must play a major role in the environmental consequences of chemical products and the processes by which these products are made.
 
3.    Green Chemistry represents the pillars which holds up our sustainable future and focuses on maximizing the efficiency while minimizing the hazard of any chemical of choice and should be adopted in Nigeria.
 
4.    Green Chemistry is an enabling science that will allow for economic and environmental progress in Nigeria
 
5.    There is a need for the provision of information on latest technology and best practices in chemicals management.
 
6.    There is a need for the establishment of an institutional framework and strengthening of National Capacity within an integrated National Programme for the sound management of chemicals.
 
7.    There is a need for the implementation of the strategic approach for Green Chemistry in Nigeria by developing an appropriate policy and draft regulation for the use of environmentally friendly chemicals.
 
8.    The Society encourages a holistic review of National policies on environment, science and technology to incorporate Green Chemistry and nanotechnology principles and issues.
 
The Society also realises that:
9.    There is an impetus for the development and provision of sufficient alternative sources of energy for Nigerians. It is also important that the practice of Green Chemistry be incorporated in this drive so as to minimise and sustain the effect of hazardous chemicals on the environment.
10.           For the effective implementation of this policy there should be a CSN/Government/Private Sector partnership to kick start the development of a roadmap for the effective takeoff of Green Chemistry in Nigeria.
11.           To drive and popularise this new concept there is a need for aggressive human capacity development, training and re-training of today and future chemists and allied professions.
 
12.           There is the need to encourage the establishment of Students Green Chemistry Clubs in our Secondary and Tertiary Institutions.
 
13.           The educational curricular in our Secondary and Tertiary Institutions should be reviewed to incorporate Green Chemistry principles and issues.
 
14.           There is a need for backup legislation at all levels of Governance for the implementation of Green Chemistry concepts in Nigeria.
 
15.           The industrial fortune of Nigeria can be boosted through massive investment in Green Chemistry, biotechnology and nanotechnology research and development.
 
16.           The Society applauds the effort of the Federal Government of Nigeria in the remarkable progress made so far in reducing e-wastes through the activation of the National Toxic Waste Dump programme which monitors the coastal areas and water ways of Nigeria to prevent illegal dumping of hazardous substances.
 
 
The conference, having examined the issues related to “Green Chemistry and Sustainable Development: Challenges and Prospects”, resolves as follows:
 
1.  Government should develop a national policy and evolve a strategy to fund and manage research and development in Green Chemistry.
 
2.   Relevant professional bodies should adopt new approaches towards empowering and strengthening of links between industrial and academic research in the area of Green Chemistry.
 
3.   Relevant Government Agencies and Industries should improve their support and funding for university research in Green Chemistry.
4.   Human capacity development and training in Green Chemistry should be given urgent attention by sponsoring professionals for trainings and seminars.
 
5.  Educators and administrators should ensure that Green Chemistry topics should be included in the curriculum at the basic, senior secondary and tertiary levels.
 
6.    The relevant science, technology and environmental agencies such as Federal Ministry of Environment (FME), National Environmental Standards Regulation and Enforcement Agency (NESREA), Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria (ICCON), etc should recognise the Chemical Society of Nigeria (CSN) in the Green Chemistry project.
 
After due considerations of all the issues relating to “Green Chemistry and Sustainable Development: Challenges and Prospects”, the Chemical Society of Nigeria (CSN) recommends as follows:
 
1.    Government should urgently develop a National Policy and enact an Act to ensure the incorporation of GreenChemistry practices to enhance Sustainable Development in Nigeria.
 
2.   Government should invest substantially in “Green Chemistry” by the establishment of dedicated national laboratories and research institutes at regional/zonal levels.
 
3.   The Chemical Society of Nigeria (CSN) and the Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria (ICCON) should be encouraged to continue the campaign for the adoption of Green Chemistry application in Nigeria.
 
4.   Government should provide tax incentives as a way of encouraging industries to increase their support for university fundamental research in the area of Green Chemistry and related applied sciences.
 
5.       Government should encourage the growing of non-food, ethanol-based crops (cellulosic) for the production of biofuels.
 
 6.  The relevant government agencies should partner with the Chemical Society of Nigeria (CSN) in Human capacity development and training in Green Chemistry concepts.
 
In conclusion, the Chemical Society of Nigeria (CSN) pledges its loyalty to the Federal Government of Nigeria and offers its assistance to the government and the private sector in the implementation of the above recommendations

The European Register of Specialists in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine
Region: WEOG
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

The European Register of Specialists in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine: Code of Conduct - Version 2 – 2008


EC4/EFCC Code of Conduct

General principles

EFCC is the European professional organisation representing Specialists in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine, a profession determined by its high level of professional qualifications.  The relevant national professional society in each of the EU Member States is represented within EFCC.

In all their work, Specialists in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine shall conduct themselves in a manner that does not bring into disrepute the discipline and the profession of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine.  They shall value integrity, impartiality and respect for persons and evidence and shall seek to establish the highest standards of quality and ethics in their work.  Because of their concern for valid evidence, they shall ensure that research is carried out in keeping with the highest standards of scientific integrity.  Taking account of their obligations under the law, they shall hold the interest and welfare of patients and those in receipt of their services to be paramount at all times and ensure that the interests of participants in research are safeguarded.

All registrants, having signed an application form, agree to abide by this Code of Conduct.  They are also obliged to comply with the Codes of Conduct of their appropriate national registration body and national societies, where appropriate.

Key principles

1.  Quality and excellence
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine shall put his* knowledge and ability concerning laboratory diagnostics (including the indication for analyses, the reliability of the results, the interpretation of results and scientific research) at the service of diagnosis, therapy and prevention of human and animal diseases.  At all times he shall act in the best interests of patients, subject to any over-riding legal requirements, with the highest standards of competency and integrity.


2.  Continuous professional development
In order to optimally fulfil his duties and in accordance with what is regarded as good practice in his profession and having regard to the laws of the country in which he is working, the Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine shall:
    a.  maintain and develop his competence at the highest level of quality by following all relevant (scientific and practical) developments concerning health care in general and Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine in particular, by participating in relevant training courses and other appropriate continuous professional development programmes throughout his working life, and by practising his profession on a regular basis;
    b. accept assignments only within his area of competence; beyond this limit, he will seek the collaboration of appropriate experts;
    c. keep up-to-date with statutory codes of practice which affect his work.
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine will display his commitment to the profession of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine by taking part in the activities of its scientific societies, notably those which promote the profession, and contribute to continuing training of their members.

3.  Compliance with codes of ethics and conduct
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine shall comply not only with the provisions of this Code of Conduct but also with legislation and with any codes of practice and standards relating to his professional work which are applicable in the country in which he is working.

4.  Honesty and integrity
The professional integrity and intellectual honesty of the Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine shall be the guarantee of his impartiality of analysis, judgment and consequent decisions.
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine shall at all times avoid deceit in professional and scientific respect, such as fraud, plagiarism, concealment, improper omission of information, and expressing incorrect or misleading opinions in both clinical work and in research.
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine will not accept any obligation that brings him into conflict with his professional independence.  In particular he undertakes:
     a.  not to solicit for, or accept, gifts, pecuniary advantages or benefits from the medical product or diagnostics industry, unless they are of low monetary value and relevant to the practice of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine;
     b.  not to solicit for, or accept, hospitality at sales promotions, symposia or congresses and the like unless this hospitality is reasonable in level and secondary to the main purpose of the meeting and does not extend to persons other than health professional;
     c.  not to accept financial support from the industry, directly or indirectly, other than for events for purely professional and scientific purposes; such gifts must always be reasonable in level and remain subordinate to the main scientific objective of the event and must not be extended to persons other than health professionals.

5.  Relationship with others
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine shall at all times act with courtesy, honest and integrity in his relationships with patients and others, including professional colleagues, and must not engage in any activity or behaviour which would bring the profession into disrepute or undermine public confidence in the profession.
He must work constructively within a team, and communicate and co-operate with other health professionals and others caring for patients.
He must not abuse his professional position to establish improper relationships with patients, to persuade patients to give or lend money or benefits, to recommend treatments or investigations which are not in the patient’s best interests, or to withhold investigations or treatments.
He must report concerns to employers or regulatory bodies where he believes a colleague’s health, conduct or performance is a threat to a patient.


6.  Independence and impartiality
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine must exercise his professional judgment within the framework of his responsibilities impartially and objectively, after taking into account all relevant circumstances, in the best interests of his patient without pressure from external sources or conflicts of interest.  He will ensure that the interests of participants in research are safeguarded and are paramount.
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine will serve the individual patient to the best of his ability and provide the general public with such information, within in his field of competence, to enable a proper understanding of health care matters of public interest.

8.  Confidentiality
Without prejudice to legislation on privacy applicable in the country where he is working, the Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine will consider himself bound to respect the confidentiality of information obtained by him in his professional work.  The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine will be on his guard against misuse of such information.  He will ensure that information about a patient or other individual is not disclosed to others except in specified circumstances, such as to other health professionals involved in the care of the patient, and, where possible, with the informed consent of the patient.

9.  Conflict with moral and ethical beliefs
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine is not obliged to offer to provide a professional service in ways which conflict with his own moral or religious beliefs, but must respect the moral, religious and cultural beliefs of individual patients.  He has an obligation to provide information on where the service requested can most conveniently be obtained from a professional colleague, or details of the institution or professional organisation from which that information can be obtained.  If he has agreed to provide a service, he must set aside any personal religious, cultural, philosophical or other convictions.  He must ensure equitable access to his services to all who are entitled to use them. 

10. Delegation and supervision
.  As head and/or member of the team operating in the Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine laboratory, the Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine will, given the specific circumstances of the situation concerned:
     a.  obtain a clear definition of the services required of him and/or his team;
     b.  ensure that all activities in the laboratory are organised and executed as accurately and as quickly as possible;
     c.  protect the safety and well-being of his colleagues and be conscious of nature and the environment;
     d.  show respect for superiors, colleagues and subordinates by taking due account of their requirements and aspirations, provided they conform to the laws and ethics of their profession;
     e.  strive for a high level of technical achievement which will also contribute to and promote a healthy and agreeable environment for his colleagues;
     f.  ensure that any member of support staff to whom a task is delegated has the knowledge, skills and competencies necessary to undertake that task effectively and efficiently, and that appropriate supervision is in place;
     g. retain responsibility for the task delegated, except when the delegatee is at the same level of professional qualification. 

11. Professional indemnity insurance
The Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine should have in place a form of insurance in respect of potential liabilities to patients and, where applicable, to third parties arising out of his professional work.  This should be at a level sufficient to ensure that a justified complainant would be adequately compensated.  Such insurance may be provided through a national arrangement for services provided by the state, by an employer, through membership of a professional association or by the individual practitioner.  Exceptionally, and by formal prior arrangement, the risk may be borne by the recipient of the service, in Member States where legislation permits such an arrangement.  The patient should be made aware of these arrangements.

12. Advertising
Specialists in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine practise in both the public and private health sectors and the relative distribution between the two varies considerably between the Member States.  In Member States where advertising of a Specialist’s services is permitted, any such advertising must be accurate, honest, legal, decent and proportionate, and must focus solely on the professional services offered.  It must also conform to any national or EU legislation and guidelines in this area.



Sanctions
Should a Specialist in Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine not keep to a part of this Code of Conduct, his national regulatory body (where applicable) and his national society will be responsible for determining culpability and sanctions.  However, if a registrant is subject to disciplinary sanction (eg. suspension, removal) from their national register, EC4 will apply the same sanction to the individual in relation to the EC4 Register.

Transparency
The national professional societies are listed, with links, on the EC4 Register website (8) where there are also links to this Code of Conduct and other documents.  There are also links to the documents from the website of the European Economic and Social Committee/Single Market Observatory Self- and Co-regulation Database (9).  Public access to the names held by the national regulatory bodies is available in some countries.  At present public access to the names of registrants on the EC4 Register is not available but may be in the future.  However this will require consent from each individual. 

*Throughout this document he/his are taken for he/she and his/her respectively
The Hague Ethical Guidelines
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Applying the norms of the practice of chemistry to support the Chemical Weapons Convention

The responsible practice of chemistry improves the quality of life of humankind and the environment.  Through their many peaceful uses, such as in research and industry, chemicals play an essential role in this improvement. However, some chemicals can also be used as chemical weapons or to create them, and these weapons are among the most horrific in the world.

The 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) embodies the powerful international norm against chemical weapons, requiring its States Parties “never under any circumstances: (a) To develop, produce, otherwise acquire, stockpile or retain chemical weapons, or transfer, directly or indirectly, chemical weapons to anyone; (b) To use chemical weapons; (c) To engage in any military preparations to use chemical weapons; (d) To assist, encourage or induce, in any way, anyone to engage in any activity prohibited to a State Party under this Convention.”  The task of destroying the world’s declared stockpiles of chemical weapons is close to completion, but the threats that the use of chemicals as weapons pose to global security have not yet been eliminated.

As destruction of the remaining chemical weapons continues, a concerted effort is needed to prevent their re-emergence.  This includes training and raising awareness among chemistry practitioners, defined as anyone trained in chemistry as well as others dealing with or handling chemicals.  Their support is needed so that production and use of chemicals is accompanied by recognition of the responsibility to ensure that they are applied solely for peaceful and beneficial purposes.  Fortunately, ethical standards established by the global chemistry community already provide a foundation. Building on that foundation, a group of experts from 24 countries from all regions of the world convened to define and harmonize key elements of ethical guidelines as they relate to chemical weapons based on existing codes.

Such codes are primary ways through which the community’s ethical standards are addressed.  The key elements presented in this text should be incorporated into new and existing codes in order to align with the provisions of the CWC. A code need not mention chemical weapons or the CWC to support its basic goals, and provisions may need to be tailored for particular sectors or circumstances, while still reflecting the fundamental values. Taken together, “The Hague Ethical Guidelines” provide the key elements that should be applied universally.



The Key Elements

Core element.  Achievements in the field of chemistry should be used to benefit humankind and protect the environment.

Sustainability. Chemistry practitioners have a special responsibility for promoting and achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals of meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.

Education.  Formal and informal educational providers, enterprise, industry and civil society should cooperate to equip anybody working in chemistry and others with the necessary knowledge and tools to take responsibility for the benefit of humankind, the protection of the environment and to ensure relevant and meaningful engagement with the general public.

Awareness and engagement.  Teachers, chemistry practitioners, and policymakers should be aware of the multiple uses of chemicals, specifically their use as chemical weapons or their precursors. They should promote the peaceful applications of chemicals and work to prevent any misuse of chemicals, scientific knowledge, tools and technologies, and any harmful or unethical developments in research and innovation. They should disseminate relevant information about national and international laws, regulations, policies and practices.

Ethics. To adequately respond to societal challenges, education, research and innovation must respect fundamental rights and apply the highest ethical standards. Ethics should be perceived as a way of ensuring high quality results in science.

Safety and Security.  Chemistry practitioners should promote the beneficial applications, uses, and development of science and technology while encouraging and maintaining a strong culture of safety, health, and security.  

Accountability. Chemistry practitioners have a responsibility to ensure that chemicals, equipment and facilities are protected against theft and diversion and are not used for illegal, harmful or destructive purposes.  These persons should be aware of applicable laws and regulations governing the manufacture and use of chemicals, and they should report any misuse of chemicals, scientific knowledge, equipment and facilities to the relevant authorities. 

Oversight.  Chemistry practitioners who supervise others have the additional responsibility to ensure that chemicals, equipment and facilities are not used by those persons for illegal, harmful or destructive purposes.

Exchange of information. Chemistry practitioners should promote the exchange of scientific and technical information relating to the development and application of chemistry for peaceful purposes.

Endorsed by

Professor Muhamad Abdulkadir (Indonesia)
Professor Jasim Uddin Ahmad (Bangladesh)
Professor Abeer Al-Bawab (Jordan)
Professor Fernando Albericio Palomera (Spain)
Professor Jan Apotheker (The Netherlands)
Professor Mahdi Balali-Mood (Islamic Republic of Iran)
Professor Djafer Benachour (Algeria)
Dr Mark Cesa (United States of America)
Professor Al-Nakib Chowdhury (Bangladesh)
Dr Philip Coleman (South Africa)
Professor Dr Hartmut Frank (Germany)
Professor David Gonzalez (Uruguay)
Professor Alastair Hay (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
Mr Steven Hill (United States of America)
Professor Dr Henning Hopf (Germany)
Dr Jo Husbands (United States of America)
Professor Jorge Guillermo Ibañez Cornejo (Mexico)
Mr Amirhossein Imani (Islamic Republic of Iran)
Dr Nancy Jackson (United States of America)
Dr Patrick John Lim (Philippines)
Professor Mohd Jamil Maah (Malaysia)
Dr Detlef Maennig (Germany)
Professor Peter Mahaffy (Canada)
Dr Robert Mathews (Australia)
Professor Temechegn Engida (Ethiopia)
Dr Kabrena Rodda (United States of America)
Dr Ting Kueh Soon (Malaysia)
Professor Alejandra Graciela Suarez (Argentina)
Professor Leiv K. Sydnes (Norway)
Mr Cheng Tang (China)
Professor Natalia P. Tarasova (Russian Federation)
Dr Christopher Timperley (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
Dr Hans-Georg Weinig (Germany)
Dr Prashant Yajnik (India)
Dr Muhammad Zafar-Uz-Zaman (Pakistan)
Professor Zuriati Binti Zakaria (Malaysia)
Mr Muhammad Setyabudhi Zuber (Indonesia)
The Hungarian Academy of Sciences
Region: Eastern European Group
Country: Hungary
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

CODE OF CONDUCT
OF THE
HUNGARIAN ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES
2. Fundamental moral and ethical principles of
scientific research3
The most important moral rules of scientific research
that scientific researchers should consider obligatory
for themselves and which they must stand for can be
described by the following concepts:
2.1. Honesty in presenting scientific goals and research
intentions, a precise presentation of scientific
methods, procedures and interpretations, and honesty
also in explaining possibilities, dangers and justifiable
claims inherent in the possible application of results.
17
3 The Anglo-Saxon literature often uses the expression „scientific integrity”.
As the translation of science integrity is not a generally accepted
term in the Hungarian language, we only use it sparsely in this
document.
2.2. Reliability in performing research, recording,
storing and presenting data. Eliminating negligence
and inattention. Full reporting on the accomplishments
and results of previous research.
2.3. Objectivity: interpretations and conclusions
must be exclusively founded on facts or impartial and
logical proof and on data the correctness of which can
be verified at least on a theoretical level.
2.4. Impartiality and independence from any interested
party or group interest, from ideological or political
pressure groups, and from economic or financial
influence.
2.5. Openness in discussing the results with other
researchers and contributing to the augmenting of
public knowledge through the publication of results.
Openness presupposes the publicity and accessibility
of the data supporting the results published in the scientific
communication for all interested researchers
and the general public. In reasonable cases this fundamental
principle may be restricted by special considerations
arising from the nature of research (intellectual
property rights, protection of personality rights etc.).
Openness is also restricted during ongoing research.
2.6. Duty of care for participants in and the subjects
of research, be they human beings, experimental animals,
the environment, or cultural objects. Research
on human subjects and animals should always rest on
respect and duty of care, procedures mostly stipulated
in laws as well..
2.7. Candour in presenting the work of others and
providing references. The professional integrity of re-
18
searcher colleagues shall be respected, their results
treated with honesty.
2.8. Responsibility for future science generations.
The control and education of young scientists requires
special attention and the mediation and increased respect
of ethical norms.
2.9. Disinterested and impartial participation in scientific
public life: in reviewing procedures and in the
work of scientific bodies and committees.
3. Performing scientific research
3.1. Planning the research programme
3.1.1. Defining the goals of research
The validity of the principle of freedom of scientific
research shall not mean that the planning of the particular
research programme has no limits. Such restrictions
may arise especially in the case of
questionable research goals and methods, or indeed if
the research planned may endanger or injure the individual,
society, or the environment.
3.1.2. Morality and quality of research
The morality and quality of research presupposes
self-critical and ethical judgment on the part of both
the researcher and the scientific public. It is especially
important that unrealistic goals should not be conceived
of as research topics, and the researcher should
not arouse unfounded expectations. It is necessary to
ponder the originality of the problem arising, the preliminary
data, the necessary finances and other circumstances.
The research should not be determined
19
by an effort to produce fast results or the largest possible
number of publications.
3.1.3. Documentation of the research plan
The research plan shall be recorded in a form stipulated
by the financer of the research. Generally, the
research plan includes who is responsible for the research
programme, what is the role of the participants,
what is the form and resource of the financing of the
research, and how data and experimental observations
shall be processed.
3.1.4. Clarification and recording of incompatibility
Supporters of the research and external financers
shall accept that the researcher performs his or her
work without being influenced. However, if by any special
reason the research is influenced, it must be
clearly stated under what circumstances and to which
extent this is occurring whether during planning, performing,
or in the course of the reviewing and publishing
of data. Such agreements shall be preliminarily
concluded in writing and made available for the management
or ethics committee of the respective institute
or organisation. The persons participating in the research
programme shall clarify to competent authorities
and those entitled to such clarification their
financial or other commitments, in case this may in
any form constitute incompatibility during the
research. Personal interest or partiality must not
influence the research, its objectivity, findings, or
publication.
20
3.1.5. Considering patents
In cases where the possibility or consideration of
patent application arises, necessary rights and obligations
shall be clarified in time, in an agreement
concluded between participating persons and institutes
and the supporters of the research, preferably in
a written form.
3.2. Fulfilment of the research programme
3.2.1. Documentation of data and other research materials
In the case of sciences performing experiments and
observations, - data shall be accurately documented
so that the research can be controlled. Data and other
documentation materials produced during the research,
both those contained in electronic data storage
devices and hard copies shall be stored in a way that
the damage, loss or manipulation thereof cannot
occur. In case loss of data occurs, it must be documented
separately.
Following the closure of the research programme
the programme leader must see that after the completion
of the programme the data and documentation
materials are stored for a time commonly accepted in
his/her respective area of science and their protection
and preservation is secured.
3.2.2. Handover of the information relating to the research
programme
Within the research working group the free circulation
of information relating to the research shall be
ensured. During the execution of the research prog -
21
ramme all participants shall be aware of what can be
revealed on the research to persons outside the research.
Following the accomplishment of the research programme,
data and other documentation materials
necessary for the data to be controllable or repeatable
or for the programme to be continued must be made
available for such purposes.
4. Communication of scientific results
The primary forum the researcher reports on his or her
results and publishes them shall be a scientific communication
(publication) with the form accepted in the
respective area of science and produced on the basis of
independent professional review procedure.
4.1. Scientific publications
A scientific communication must be published in a
recognised periodical or book in printing or electronically
and having an independent editorial committee.
Prior to the publication, the scientific result may be
placed in an internationally known archive, but this
cannot be deemed a scientific communication. Indicating
a non-scientific work (informative article, communication
not published in a professional issue,
educational excerpt etc.) as scientific communication
constitutes an ethical misconduct.
4.2. Entirety and impartiality
Results shall be published impartially and in their
entirety. In the communication the description of
methods applied in experiments and examinations,
22
and their proper literature references shall be given,
the fault of the experimental data and the limits of applied
methods shall also be communicated. In the communication
attention shall be called to the dangers
occurring during the experiments. Arbitrary selection
of data cannot be tolerated and results not in accordance
with the conclusions cannot be withheld.
4.3. Proper quotation
The quotation of the widest possible range of substantial
precedents of the research and the possible
all-inclusive quotation of scientific publications containing
disputed questions must be attempted. If one
expropriates others’ ideas, methods or data to him- or
herself through incomplete quotation, he or she commits
an ethical misconduct.
4.4. Author of the communication
4.4.1.
The person who, due to his or her scientific work,
has given an important contribution to the planning or
accomplishment of experiments, the evaluation and
control of results shall be indicated as author. A position
held in the institution or institute, or a role played
in the financing of the research shall in itself not entitle
anyone to pose as the author of the publication. Nor
can honorary authorship be allowed.
4.4.2.
In the case of several authors and the presentation
of the results of substantially differing experimental
processes the particular contributions of the individual
authors must be made obvious.
23
4.4.3.
The indication corresponding author may only be
used by the consent of the other authors. Only those
who have played a decisive or co-ordinating role in the
communication may be indicated as such.
4.4.4.
It is not proper practice to communicate a particular
experimental result in several separate publications
for the purpose of augmenting the number of articles
published by the researcher. Cases where the original
article was written in a foreign language shall be excepted.
In such cases, while in full deference to copyrights,
publication of the Hungarian language version
is desirable for the purpose of the availability of the research
results to wider Hungarian professional circles
and for the care of an Hungarian scientific-professional
language terminology. The practice of after-publication
accepted in certain professional areas may also be an
exception.
4.5. Correction
In case during the research work it emerges that
someone’s own data or conclusion published previously
are faulty or wrong, the authors shall publish
this fact without delay, preferably in the periodical that
had carried the original article in the first instance. In
the case of a publication of several authors the initi -
ation of the correction is the obligation of the first author.
During a correction, especially when indicating
the name of the authors it must be avoided that anyone
is unreasonably accused with scientific ethical
misconduct. In case the correcting communication
24
does not indicate any of the authors of the original
communication, the reason must be explained.
5. Infringement of scientific ethics
5.1. Grievous forms of infringement of research
ethical norms
The most grievous forms of the infringement of scientific
ethics are fabrication, falsification, plagiarism,
and bringing personal influence to bear. These offences
are very close to violations of the law and it can only be
decided while considering the particular offence
whether it reaches beyond ethical misconduct and
hence must be treated as a violation of law.
5.1.1.
Fabrication is the publication of “results” without
any base.
5.1.2.
Falsification is the manipulation, alteration, or deliberate
neglect of data or results. Publication of falsified
data also qualifies as an ethical misconduct.
5.1.3.
Plagiarism is the takeover of ideas, scientific results,
words, texts of others and indicating them as
one’s own. Among grievous offences plagiarism can be
caught out most easily. Namely, scientific communications
and new ideas and illustrative materials occurring
therein are protected by copyright enforceable in
court. However, this protection is not all-inclusive, all
the above can become the subjects of plagiarism without
a violation of law being clear. In such cases ethical
25
rules can serve as a basis of orientation and provide
protection for the author.
Plagiarism is first of all derogatory for the researcher
and not so much for science itself. However, openness
is one of the ethical fundamental principles of
scientific research, according to which the development
of science is based on the open communication
and debate among scientists. Should scientists seclude
themselves from such communication, being afraid of
not being recognised as discoverers, this will spoil even
the science itself.
It is an aggravated case of plagiarism when the editor
or reviewer of the publication expropriates new
thoughts or experimental results of an article submitted
for publication, even indirectly, among others by
its handover to a third party.
5.1.4.
Bringing personal influence to bear usually offends
the dignity of persons, an offence that can easily turn
into injury. It can aim at the acquisition of a position
favourable to the person bringing his/her influence to
bear, but also at the making of a decision unfavourable
to a third party. Asking for consideration or any kind
of bargain may also occur. Intimidation of the persons
depending on the researcher, unjustified restriction of
the freedom of research and any form of discrimination
also belong to this category. The ethical misconduct of
personal influence may be, subject to the circumstances,
qualified as a criminal act akin to blackmail or
defamation.
Further, toleration or neglect of the infringement of
the abovementioned ethical rules under external
26
duress and the threat of reprisal against the whistleblower
shall also be qualified as personal influence.
This circle also involves the attempt of raising the
number of references through personal pressure.
Hungarian scientific public opinion strongly condemns
misconducts of personal influence, including
favouritism in kind, and prohibits them in normative
regulations.
5.2. Other morally objectionable forms of behaviour
and practice
Beside grievous ethical misconducts, numerous
morally objectionable forms of behaviour and research
practices are also worth considering. These can also
undermine people’s trust in science. Hereinafter, without
striving for completeness, the following can be
stressed:
5.2.1. Infringement of social consensus or the laws
In this context research activity harmful to the environment
can be mentioned as an example. The violation
of effective laws and other legal regulations
regarding research (e.g. those relating to examinations
carried out on human beings or animal tests) is ethically
unacceptable.
5.2.2. Infringement of personality rights
Here one can mention the violation of dignity and
freedom of persons involved in scientific examination
as experimental objects, the omission of information
on experimental risks, imperfect information, or the
breach of secrecy.
27
5.2.3. Inappropriate management of data
Denial of handover of data to other researchers
causing failure of the reconstruction of experi mental results
can be mentioned here. Improper storage of original
data, alteration of data, neglecting data disturbing
the outcome desired, distortion of data, and ignoring
unexpected results can also be reckoned with here.
5.2.4. Misconducts regarding publication
It is an ethical misconduct to deny deserved authorship,
insist on or grant undeserved authorships,
and in general to indicate merits relating to authorship
in a false way. A misconduct of this kind is a form of
falsification.
In the field of the natural sciences during the publication
of results (discoveries) a clear requirement is
the exclusion of multiple publications, while in the
case of the social sciences clear indication of after-publication
is required.
Incomplete indication of the supporters of the research
is also objectionable.
5.2.5. Misconducts regarding proofreading, publishing,
and critical procedures
On the part of proofreaders of scientific communications
and editors of publications the toleration of incompatibility
in the critical procedure shall be
regarded as an ethical misconduct. Both on the part
of the editor and the reviewer it shall be an ethical misconduct
to give preference to certain authors during
the publishing procedure or conversely, to hinder the
publication of an article for personal reasons. In the
28
same way, fundamental ethical principles may be infringed
during the consideration of research tenders.
5.2.6. Publication of false or deceptive data relating
to scientific work, publications, or awards
It shall qualify as an ethical misconduct if someone
publishes false or deceptive data regarding his or her
scientific work, or in relation to the science metric data
relating to his or her publications, research, scientific
awards.
The evaluation of the above behavioural and research
practices can at least partially depend on the
given cultural environment, local traditions, or the
local legal system. It is desirable to formulate and continuously
evaluate the norms in accordance with the
local, in this case Hungarian, cultural traditions, values
and public opinion drawing on the support of the
international literature and the experiences obtained
from cases considered by ethics committees.
6. Procedure in the case of suspected infringements
of ethical rules
6.1. The body carrying out the ethical examination
In the case of a suspicion of misconduct infringing
scientific ethical standards starting and carrying out
the procedure shall always be the obligation of the institution
(university, research or other institution),
where the researcher suspected of committing such
misconduct is working. Ethical misconducts occurring
during the doctoral procedure of HAS shall constitute
29
an exception, as the investigation thereof and the conducting
of the relating ethical procedure shall be conducted
by the Science Ethics Committee of HAS.
As stipulated in paragraph 1, the Science Ethics
Committee of HAS may also proceed in other particular
cases provided both the demandant and the respondent
undertake in writing to subject themselves to the
procedure. A public body member of HAS, applying for
the title Doctor of HAS and contributing to the corresponding
doctoral procedure in any form shall be
obliged to subject him- or herself to the procedure by
all means. In the case of decisions of the Science
Ethics Committee adopted at the first instance, the
Presidency of the HAS shall act as the forum of appeal.
It is desirable for the institutions conducting ethical
procedures to have an ethics committee for the conducting
of their investigations, or in the absence
thereof to set up ad hoc committees in the case of a
suspicion of ethical misconduct.
6.2. Fundamental principles of an ethical investigation
6.2.1. Ascertaining the seriousness of the misconduct
In case of an ethical misconduct the proper steps
shall depend on the seriousness of the act. In this
respect the level of demonstrable deliberateness and
the weight of consequences shall be considered. Any person
subject to the investigation can only be reprimanded
in case it can be demonstrated that he or she committed
the ethical misconduct deliberately and knowingly.
As a standard of considering evidence the principle of
“strong body of evidences” shall be applied.
30
6.2.2. Ensuring the internal integrity and legal regularity
of the procedure
The investigation conducted shall be fully comprehensive,
regulated, and balanced; it shall be based on
exact exploration, objectivity, and completeness.
It shall be ensured that the persons participating
in the investigation process are not affected or involved
and cannot be accused with partiality.
Detailed, written and duly signed documents handled
with confidence shall be prepared of the procedure.
6.2.3. Uniformity
Procedures shall in all cases be conducted in a way
comparable to one another, according to the same
principles and practices and shall be transparent in
their every detail.
6.2.4. Balance
The investigation shall be carried out in full respect
of the valid interests of all parties concerned and be in
line with the relevant laws and regulations.
Persons accused of ethical misconduct shall be
given full details of the ethical misconduct attributed to
them and given the possibility for responding to allegations
in writing, asking questions, presenting evidence,
calling witnesses, and providing responses to the information
presented.
Witnesses shall have the necessary information on
the procedure, and they must be allowed to seek advice
and assistance if they so wish.
Persons found to have committed a research misconduct
shall be sanctioned proportionately.
31
Decisions made shall be subject to appeal and there
shall be a body or person receiving the appeal.
No person shall suffer any damage or penalty for
making an allegation of ethical misconduct, but action
shall be taken against persons found to have made allegations
in bad faith.
6.2.5. Closeness of the management of the procedure
and the information handled
The procedure shall be conducted as confidentially
as possible in order to protect those involved in the investigation
from unfounded accusations. Such confidentiality
shall be maintained provided this does not
harm the completeness of investigation, or the health
and safety of participants in research.
Information arising during the investigation may
only be handed over to a third party with a written
statement of confidentiality.
If the organisation conducting the investigation has
legal obligations to inform any other organisation regarding
the content or findings of the investigation,
those obligations must be fulfilled at the appropriate
time by the appropriate means.
6.2.6. Presumption of innocence
Persons accused of having committed an ethical
misconduct shall be presumed innocent until proven
guilty.
No person should suffer any penalty until the alleg -
ation of his or her having committed an ethical misconduct
is fully proven.
32
6.2.7. Publicity of the resolution of the Science Ethics
Committee
The fact of a researcher having committed an ethic
misconduct shall be made public. The resolutions are
basically public, deviation is possible in case the publication
infringes the personality rights of a person not
reprimanded.
In its resolution the Science Ethics Committee
makes a proposal for the form its stand should become
public.
6.2.8. Sanctioning ethical misconduct
In the case of an ethical misconduct the proper
measures and sanctions depend on the seriousness of
the act. Following the ascertaining of the misconduct
and beyond the publication thereof, the Science Ethics
Committee, if it deems it necessary, informs the institution
or organisation of the offender on the misconduct
separately.
33
PROCEDURES OF THE
SCIENCE ETHICS
COMMITTEE OF THE
HUNGARIAN ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES
1. Legal Status of the Science Ethics Committee
The Science Ethics Committee (SEC) of the Hungarian
Academy of Sciences (HAS) is, according to point h) of
paragraph (2) of article 9 of the Act XL of 1994 on the
Hungarian Academy of Sciences (HASL) and paragraph
(2) of article 32 of the Statutes (STAT) is a standing
committee of the General Assembly of HAS, the members
of which are elected by the General Assembly.
SEC shall fulfil its role independently, in exclusive subordination
to the General Assembly and on the basis of
the relevant effective laws, further it shall report on its
activity to the General Assembly annually.
2. Scope of duties and competence of SEC
The duties of SEC are determined by the HASL, the
STAT, the Procedures of HAS, the Code of Conduct
(Code) and Memorandum (hereinafter collectively referred
to as: Code of Conduct). (par. (13) of art. 24 of
STAT)
2.1. SEC
2.1.1. takes a stand on the protection of the freedom
of scientific research and the integrity of scientific
public life in principal questions of science ethics (point
g) of par. (1) of art. 3 of HASL., par (1) of art. 32 of STAT)
35
The document was accepted by the members of the Presidency with their
resolution No. 50/2010. X. 26..
2.1.2. upon request, it proceeds in all cases that endanger
the ethical principles of scientific research, or
whenever the suspicion of science ethic misconduct
arises; (par. (2) of art. 32 of STAT and Memorandum)
2.1.3. examines petitions submitted on ethical misconduct
occurring during doctoral procedures; (point
6.1. of Code)
2.1.4. based on the motion of the scientific section
of HAS in charge of the particular field of science it
makes decisions on the suspension of public body
membership; (par. (2) of art. 21 of STAT)
2.1.5. proceeds at first instance in the cases determined
in points 2.1.2-2.1.4, and also at second instance
as an appellate forum upon request in case of
decisions adopted by the science ethic committees of
research institutes, higher education and other institutions
and organiz ations; (Memorandum)
2.1.6. may, for the utilization of the experiences acquired
during its proceeding, make a proposal for the
amendment of the Code of Conduct towards the General
Assembly; (Memorandum)
2.1.7. reports on its activity yearly to the General
Assembly. (par. (9) of art. 27 of STAT)
2.2. The competence of SEC shall cover:
2.2.1. the public body members of HAS, the procedure
for obtaining the scientific title Doctor of HAS and
all persons participating therein, and the scientific researchers
mentioned in point 1 of the Code of Conduct
of HAS; (point 1 of Code)
36
2.2.2. the science ethic cases in which both the demandant
and the respondent announce in writing that
they subject themselves to the procedure. (par. (3) of
art. 32 of STAT, point 6.1. of Code) In the case of those
listed under point 2.2.1 the conducting of the procedure
does not need a statement of subjection from either
the demandant or the respondent.
3. Members and officers of SEC
3.1. SEC has twenty-two members elected by the
General Assembly in a secret ballot for 3 years (one academic
period). The members may be elected for an additional
academic period at the longest. The members
of the Science Ethics Committee are nominated by the
scientific sections of HAS, one person per section of the
full and corresponding members of the Academy and
one person from among doctor members of the public
body. In case a member of the committee is permanently
hampered (for a period exceeding 6 months) in
the fulfilment of his/her committee duties, or his or
her membership ceases for any reason, on base of the
nomination from the section concerned the Nominating
Committee makes a proposal to the General Assembly
for the election of a new member. (point h) of
par. (2) of art. 9 of HASL and par. (2) of art. 32 of STAT)
3.2. The President of HAS shall provide for the calling
of the first sitting of SEC following its election. The
members of SEC shall elect the chairperson chairing
the first sitting and the president of SEC out of their
own circle. It is the duty of the chairperson to conduct
the election of a president. Prior to the election of a
37
president any member of the committee can make a
proposal on the person of the president. The chairperson
can also be elected to serve as president of SEC.
The member of SEC who has been president of SEC for
only one period can be elected for a second period. par.
(6) of art. 27 of STAT)
3.3. The committee elects the president of SEC with
a simple majority secret ballot. With the election of the
president of SEC the duty of the chairperson shall
cease. The mandate of the president of SEC shall last
for the period of the mandate of SEC. The work of SEC
is governed by the president of the committee. In case
the president is permanently hampered (for a period
exceeding 6 months) in the fulfilment of his/her committee
duties, or his or her committee membership
ceases for any reason, SEC shall elect a new president
(point d) of par. (1) of art. 58. of STAT)
3.4. The secretariat duties of SEC shall be fulfilled by
the Legal and Administrative Department of the HAS
Secretariat. The secretary of SEC is a lawyer nominated
from among the civil servants of the department
by the head of department and charged with the fulfilment
of the duty by the president of SEC. The secretary
shall be mandated with the handover of a written,
filed letter of commission. The president of SEC may
cease the mandate of the secretary and call the head of
department upon the nomination of a new secretary.
The secretary participates at the sittings of SEC with
consultation right but with no right of vote.
38
4. Operation of SEC
4.1. SEC proceeds as a body and exercises its competences
at the committee sitting, its members have
voting rights. It formulates a position, or it may do so
in cases or in relation to activities determined in points
2.1.1, 2.1.6 and 2.1.7 and it adopts a resolution in
cases determined in points 2.1.2, 2.1.3, 2.1.4 and
2.1.5.
4.2. Voting on the position or resolution (hereinafter
collectively referred to as: decision) of the committee
can only be executed personally. An absent member
can only submit an opinion or proposal in writing (electronically,
via e-mail, facsimile, etc.). In exceptional
and reasoned cases when the members of SEC are acquainted
with all relevant details of a certain case, the
president of SEC can call upon the members to vote
electronically or in writing at a later date.
4.3. SEC shall sit as often as the need arises, but at
least three times a year. The president shall convene
SEC at least 8 days prior to the sitting by indicating
the agenda, venue and date in writing (via mail, fax or
e-mail). In extraordinary cases the sitting may be convened
within 8 days as well.
4.4. The sitting of SEC shall be prepared by the secretary
of the committee according to the directions of
the president and they shall jointly provide for the execution
of the decisions of SEC.
4.5. The sitting is presided by the president. In the
case of the incapacitation of the president the present
members shall elect a chair from among themselves.
39
4.6. The sitting is in quorum when at least 12 members
of SEC are present. SEC adopts its resolutions
with a simple majority of open votes, in the case of a
tie, however, the vote of the president shall decide the
outcome. Moreover, terms of point II of the annex of
STAT shall also apply to voting.
4.7. At least one third of the committee members
may propose in writing that the president convene
SEC, with an indication of the agenda suggested. In
case the president fails to grant the proposal within 15
days, the originators themselves are also entitled to
convene SEC. The committee convened in this way
shall elect a chair at the extraordinary meeting with a
simple majority secret ballot. Moreover, the committee
shall hold the extraordinary sitting and adopt its decision
according to the general rules.
4.8. Minutes shall be drawn up of the sittings of SEC
containing the venue and date of the sitting, the
agenda discussed, the proposals made, the outcome of
the voting and all data or facts the recording of which
is asked for by any committee member, so especially a
minority report of the committee members regarding
the resolution or its reasoning. The secretary of SEC
shall compile the minutes within 5 working days after
the sitting and send it to the president of SEC for app -
roval. Following approval by the president the secretary
shall send the minutes to members of SEC
without delay. In case any of the members of SEC finds
that the minutes do not faithfully record things said at
the sitting or any data, fact or circumstance, such a
member may propose it to be amended. The amend-
40
ment shall be decided on by the president. The minutes
shall be approved by SEC at its next sitting.
4.9. The president of SEC shall primarily keep contact
with the members of SEC via e-mail, while the materials
of the sittings shall also be sent via e-mail by
the secretary upon the authorization and mandate by
the president of SEC.
4.10. In its annual report to the General Assembly
SEC shall give a short report on the affairs it has handled
or is in the process of handling.
5. Procedure in individual cases
5.1. A submission addressed to SEC shall be filed by
the secretary of SEC and immediately sent to the president
of SEC. If it is the president who receives the submission
directly, he or she shall send it to the secretary
for filing. A submission sent electronically is only examined
in merit if it arrives from an identifiable person
or organisation. In individual cases the president shall
examine whether SEC has competence and jurisdiction
to proceed in the case and decides on the secrecy
classification request relating to the notifying person.
The notifier shall, in case his or her classification request
is denied by the president of SEC or SEC, be
called upon for a statement by setting a deadline on
whether he or she maintains the request or seeks remedy
according to the following.
According to the main rule, the person of the notifier
shall be public for the respondent person, members
of SEC, and in the second instance procedure for
41
the members of the Presidency and the secretary of
SEC. However, at the time of the notification, in especially
reasoned cases the notifier can ask the encryption
of his or her data vis a vis the persons participating
in the procedure (including the respondent as
well), or a part thereof. The confidential management of
data shall be decided on by the president of SEC. In
case the president of SEC denies the request on the
encryption of the data, the notifier may, with the exception
of the request on encryption also affecting the
members of SEC and within 15 days from the receipt
of the decision on denial, request SEC to order the confidential
management of data. Against a decision of
SEC on encryption there shall be no further remedy. In
the case of the denial of the request on the encryption
relating to the members of SEC by the president of
SEC there shall be no remedy; in this case the notifier
shall be called upon for a statement as above.
In an electronic way (via mail for member of SEC
with no electronic mailing system) simultaneously with
the sending of the submission, the president of SEC
shall make a reasoned proposal for the members of
SEC to reject the submission, if
- the notification is evidently frivolous, unfounded
or anonymous,
- the notification is related to the verification of a
final resolution adopted by SEC or in a second instance
procedure by the Presidency, except if
  the notification contains new data or information
not known for the decision maker at the
acceptance of the first or second instance science
ethic resolution, or
  following the science ethic procedure, the court
42
has, between the same parties and with the
same statements of facts, come to a decision
being contrary to the decision of SEC or the
Presidency,
- the notification contains a petition contrary to a
decision adopted in a case finally adjudged by a
court of law,
- the submission calls the competence of a court or
other authority into question,
- the complaint objects to a decision of an academic
body (committee, scientific section, Presidency,
etc.) adopted in a professional scientific question,
or otherwise the complaint asks for a position in
a scientific question,
- according to his or her consideration the handling
of the complaint belongs to the competence of a
different public body, social or labour organis -
ation (e.g. bar or medical association).
Within 15 days the members of SEC shall inform
the president of SEC on their position on the proposal
with a “yes” or “no” vote. In the case of a tie among the
members of SEC the vote of the president of SEC shall
decide. The president of SEC shall adopt his or her decision
on the acceptance or rejection of the submission
according to the result of the voting.
5.2. In case the initiation of the case is reasoned to
fall within the regulations relating to the activity of
SEC and the competence and jurisdiction of SEC can
be clearly ascertained, the president of SEC shall present
the case to SEC for examination.
43
5.3. The demandant shall be informed by the secretary
in writing on the decision of the president of SEC
on the submission (on the acceptance of the submission
or on the rejection thereof in default of the competence
and jurisdiction of SEC) within 30 days from
the receipt of the submission. The information shall include:
5.3.1. which sitting is expected to examine the case;
5.3.2. who will proceed in the case as a member of
SEC;
5.3.3. that during the procedure the demandant
can ask questions and explain his or her reasons,
present evidence, call witnesses and get acquainted
with the documents of the case;
5.3.4. that the demandant can submit an objection
of incompatibility against the persons participating in
the procedure;
5.3.5. the president of SEC shall inform the demandant
on a substantial decision (adopted in a procedural
question) of the committee within 15 days after
the acceptance of such a decision.
5.4. The secretary of SEC shall inform the person affected
by the submission (the respondent) on the fact
that a science ethic procedure was initiated against
him or her and shall give the information detailed in
points 5.3.1-5.3.5 to him/her, as well as on the understanding
that the respondent is entitled to get acquainted
with the complaint submitted against him or
her in its entirety.
44
5.5. The submission shall be examined on its receipt,
preferably at the first sitting of SEC, on the basis of the
available documents. The case shall be settled within
six months of the receipt of the submission at the latest.
If SEC finds that the case cannot be settled within
six months, it shall set an additional deadline of three
months at the longest with a resolution. The procedural
deadline shall not include the term of the procedure
of other organisations/persons contacted by SEC
for the ascertaining of the statement of facts or the
adoption of the decision. The SEC resolution signed by
the president of SEC shall be sent to the demandant
and the respondent by the secretary.
5.6. If the president makes a proposal to SEC for the
examination of the case, SEC shall decide on the basis
of the available documents after the debate held at its
sitting, or shall determine the procedural actions the
execution of which can be expected to take place at its
next sitting at the latest.
5.7. In more complicated cases the president of SEC
shall
a) call a rapporteur out of the members of SEC to
carry out a presentation of the case and the submission
of proposal for resolution;
b) call upon an ad hoc committee of the members of
SEC. The members of the ad hoc committee shall
elect a president from among themselves. The ad
hoc committee shall, with majority, prepare a proposal
for resolution and submits it to SEC for discussion.
45
The investigation can be led by the president
him/herself who can involve at his or her own discretion
the members of SEC in the number deemed necessary
by the president. In this case the president shall
prepare the proposal for resolution and submit it with
reasoning to SEC for discussion.
5.8. During the investigation the statement of facts
shall be explored.
5.8.1. The procedure shall be conducted in the
smallest possible circle.
5.8.2. Both parties (the demandant and the respondent
or the representatives thereof) shall be given the
possibility to explain their reasons in writing.
5.8.3. The person accused with having committed
an ethical misconduct shall be given the possibility of
getting acquainted with the complaint submitted
against him/her to the SEC in the fullest detail, further,
upon his/her request of responding in writing,
asking questions, presenting evidence, calling witnesses
and getting acquainted with the documents of
the case. In especially reasoned cases, if the statement
of facts cannot be cleared otherwise, the president of
SEC can ex officio grant the possibility for the notifier
or the respondent of verbally explaining his/her reasons
before the ad hoc committee or the sitting of SEC.
5.8.4. SEC shall obtain documents and expert opinions
as occasion requires.
5.8.5. SEC shall pay special attention to the respect
of personality rights and the protection of personal
data.
46
5.8.6. Unless it is its obligation by law, SEC can
only hand over or make available information acquired
during the investigation to a third person in reasoned
cases and in return for the statement of confidence
signed by this third person (points 6.2.4 and 6.2.5 of
Code). SEC shall only be entitled to forward or make
available data to third persons in cases and ways determined
by the Act LXIII of 1992 on the Protection of
Personal Data and the Disclosure of Information of
Public Interest.
5.8.7. Minutes are drawn up of the sittings of the
ad hoc committee and the hearings.
5.9. SEC shall send its resolution adopted in individual
cases at first instance to the persons concerned
within 15 days in writing. The resolution (its purview
part containing the decision and the reasoning) shall
be formulated on a separate sheet by each resolution,
numbered in a yearly ascendant order and recorded in
the registry of resolutions.
The resolution shall contain
5.9.1. the decision adopted by SEC in the case,
5.9.2. the reasoning of the decision,
5.9.3. information on the fact that an appeal
against the resolution of SEC adopted at first instance
can be submitted to the Presidency of HAS, addressed
to the president of SEC within 15 days on receipt of
the resolution,
5.9.4. the information that in the absence or bela -
tedness of an appeal the resolution shall come into
force,
47
5.9.5. the ascertaining of the fact that following the
decision SEC publishes the resolution on the website
of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or chooses a different
form of publication,
5.9.6. the reasoning of the fact why SEC does not
inform the public (point 6.2.7 of the Code)
5.9.7. its decision whether it finds it necessary to
inform the institution or organisation of the offender
on the resolution separately. (point 6.2.8 of the Code)
5.10. The notifier, the respondent and the person
being affected by the explicit and substantial statement
of the resolution of SEC are entitled to submit an
appeal against the resolution of SEC adopted at first
instance. In the case of an appeal submitted against
the resolution of SEC adopted at first instance, within
15 days after the receipt of the appeal, the president of
SEC shall introduce the appeal, along with the simultaneous
sending of the documents of the case, to the
President of HAS for adjudication.
5.11. In case SEC proceeds in the cases of objection
to decisions adopted in the research ethic committees
of research institutes, high education and other institutions
and organisations, shall apply the terms of
points 5.1-5.10 implicitly. In the resolution that can
be condemning, exempting, or contravening the resolution
adopted at first instance, it must be stated that
there shall be no further remedy against the resolution.
5.12. In the case of the proposal of a scientific of HAS
section on the suspension of a public body membership
the terms of point 5 shall also be applied implicitly.
48
5.13. SEC shall ex officio proceed against the person
initiating a science ethic procedure if he/she is found
during the investigation to have initiated the procedure
maliciously.
5. 14. Incompatibility rules
The persons listed below cannot participate in the
procedure of the Science Ethics Committee:
− who is a close relative of the notifier or the respondent,
− who is in a subordinate relation with the notifier
or the respondent in any legal employment relationship,
− who cannot be expected to exercise an unbiased
consideration of the case because of any other
reason properly justifying incompatibility.
The objection of incompatibility against the members
of SEC can be submitted by the notifier, the respondent
and a member of SEC. The objection shall be
submitted immediately on learning about incompatibility.
The objection can be submitted until the end of
the first hearing of SEC, irrespective of the fact
whether a substantial decision was adopted in the case
at the first hearing. Following the first hearing the objection
of incompatibility can only lie in case if it occurred
after the hearing but still prior to the adoption
of the substantial decision. No appeal shall lie after the
adoption of the substantial decision. The objection of
incompatibility shall be decided on by the president of
SEC who shall inform the petitioner of the objection on
his/her decision within 15 days after receipt of the
submission. The incompatibility notified relating to the
president of SEC shall be decided on by SEC by voting
49
with the president of SEC not participating in the voting.
The petitioner shall be informed on the decision of
SEC within 15 days after its adoption.
6. Miscellaneous
6.1. The president of SEC is responsible for the lawful
operation of SEC.
6.2. The administrative, technical conditions necessary
for the operation of SEC shall be provided by the
Legal and Administrative Department of the HAS. The
documents of SEC shall be registered, handled and filed
separately from other documents of the department.
6.3. In the procedures of SEC, in questions not
regulated in these procedures, the rules of HASL,
STAT, the procedures of HAS, the Code of Conduct of
HAS and the effective and relevant laws shall be
applied implicitly.
7. Final provisions
The procedures of SEC shall come into force upon their
approval by the Presidency of the Academy, on the day
of their publication in the Academic Journal. On their
coming into force, the procedures shall be published
on the website of HAS as well. (par. (1) of art. 28 of
STAT)
50
APPEALING A DECISION
MADE BY THE SCIENCE
ETHICS COMMITTEE
As stipulated by Point 6.1. of the Code of Conduct of
the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, an appeal against
a decision made at first instance by the Science Ethics
Committee can be lodged with the Presidency of HAS
as the forum of appeal.
1. Appeals can be submitted within 15 calendar days
after the receipt of the resolution of the Science
Ethics Committee.
2. The appeal shall be submitted to the Presidency of
the Academy, addressed to the president of the
Science Ethics Committee.
3. The president of the Science Ethics Committee
shall send the appeal within 30 days after its receipt
to the Presidency of the Academy, addressed
to the President of the Academy. He/she shall enclose
to the appeal the relevant documents of the
case and his/her reasoned stance to the appeal.
4. The President of the Academy shall call upon an
expert with the necessary expertise from among
public body members of HAS for the preparation
of the files mentioned in Point 3 for a sitting of the
Presidency and for reporting thereon. The notifier
and the demandant are entitled to submit an objection
against the person of the expert, and request
the appointment of another expert.
52
The document was adopted by the members of the Presidency with their
resolution No. 50/2010. X. 26.
5. The expert agreed upon shall prepare his/her
opinion (proposal) relating to the case within 30
days. The expert’s opinion shall be sent to the notifier
and the respondent who may study it for not
longer than 15 days. The notifier and the respondent
can submit an objection against the expert’s
opinion. In its second instance procedure the
Presidency shall decide on the basis of all available
documents.
6. On learning the expert’s proposal and the objection
the Presidency shall negotiate the appellate
case at its next sitting pending its work schedule
but only if the proposal (objection) arrives at the
Presidency at least 15 days prior to the sitting. In
case the proposal (objection) arrives within 15
days prior to the date of the first presidency sitt -
ing pending its work schedule, it can also be
examined at the next presidency sitting. The observance
of the expert’s opinion (objection) shall
not be obligatory for the Presidency while adopting
its decision of second instance.
7. With its resolution the Presidency may
− affirm the decision of the Science Ethics Committee,
or
− amend the decision of the Science Ethics Committee,
or annul the decision of the Science
Ethics Committee, and if necessary remand the
Science Ethics Committee for a new procedure.
8. The Presidency shall, with regard to the position
of the Science Ethics Committee stated in its resolution
of first instance relating to the disclosure,
53
decide on the publication of its resolution on the
website of the Academy or in the Academic Journal.
9. Incompatibility rules:
The persons listed below cannot participate in the
decision-making procedure of the Presidency:
− who took part in the adoption of the decision of
first instance,
− who contributed to the first instance procedure
of the SEC as experts or were heard as witnesses,
− who is a close relative of the notifier or the respondent,
− who is in a subordinate relation with the notifier
or the respondent in any employment relationship,
− of whom no unbiased consideration of the case
can be expected because of any other reason of
incompatibility.
Incompatibility rules relating to the members of the
Presidency shall be applied to the expert called upon
by the president of the Academy as well.
Objections of incompatibility against the members
of the Presidency can be submitted by
− the notifier,
− the respondent,
− any member of the Presidency,
− the expert in relation to his/her own person.
The objection shall be submitted immediately after
learning about the incompatibility. No objection of in-
54
compatibility can be submitted after the first presidency
sitting negotiating the case, except when an incompatibility
occurs after the hearing but still prior to
the adoption of a substantial decision. The objection of
incompatibility submitted shall be decided on by the
President of the Academy who shall inform the petitioner
of the objection on his/her decision within 15
days after the submission. Members of the Presidency
should decide upon any incompatibility relating to the
President by voting (the President being excluded from
this votes). The petitioner shall be informed on the
decision of the Presidency within 15 days after its
adoption.
55
The Institute of Chemical Engineers (IChemE) Professional Conduct
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

RULES OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINARY REGULATIONS

Issue IV:  2014


The Rules and Regulations embodied in this document are made and published as required by the By-laws of The Institution of Chemical Engineers. They must be read
and interpreted in accordance with those By-laws.


CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT

1.  This Code of Professional Conduct and related Rules is designed to cover (a) the professional competence of members of the Institution when practising their engineering expertise anywhere in the world, and (b) their professional relationships with the Institution, its members and its  staff, and their professional colleagues. For situations not specifically encompassed by these Rules, members are required to order their conduct in accordance with the principle that, in any conflict between a member’s personal interests and the fair and proper interests of the community, the member’s duty to the community should prevail.

2.  The Council may publish from time to time Guidance Notes to members containing advice as to specific conduct which is to be regarded as proper or improper as the case may be. Such Notes shall be deemed to be part of the Code of Professional Conduct.

3.  Members when discharging their professional duties shall act with competence and integrity, in the public interest, and shall exercise all reasonable professional skill and care to:

(a) Professional competence
(i) Prevent avoidable danger to health or safety
(ii)    Prevent avoidable adverse impact on the environment.
(iii)   Maintain their competence
(iv)    Undertake only professional tasks for which they are competent.
(v) Disclose relevant limitations of competence.
(vi)    Accept appropriate responsibility for work carried out under their supervision
(vii)   Avoid where possible real or perceived conflicts of interest and advise affected parties when such conflicts arise
(viii)  Assess relevant risks and liability, and, if appropriate, hold professional indemnity insurance.

(b) Professional relationships
(ix)    Observe the proper duties of confidentiality owed to appropriate parties and comply with all legal or IChemE requirements regarding data protection and confidential information whether belonging to IChemE or other parties, or the use of IChemE’s brands, logos, corporate identity or other intellectual property.
(x) Reject bribery and other corrupt practices.
(xi)    Treat colleagues and subordinates fairly and without bias.
(xii)   Encourage others to advance their learning and competence
(xiii)  Notify the Institution if convicted of any relevant criminal offence or disqualified as a Company Director.
(xiv)   Notify the Institution of any significant violation of the Institution’s Code of Conduct by another member.
(xv)    Be mindful at all times of the integrity expected of members of the Institution in their personal conduct in order to avoid any behaviour which might undermine the confidence of the public in the exercise of their professional responsibilities.
 

4.  Members may be deemed guilty of improper professional conduct if:

a.  in the opinion of the Council their conduct fails to conform with the By-laws of the Institution (including the Code of Conduct or of these Rules or with any advice published thereunder); or

b.  they are convicted by a competent tribunal of any relevant criminal offence, or have in any other proceedings to which they are party been found by a Court or other competent tribunal guilty of conduct which (in either such case) in the opinion of the Council renders them unfit to be members; or

c.  they are, in the opinion of the Council, precluded from performing their professional duties, in a manner which is consistent with the standards of their profession, as a result of having been adjudicated bankrupt or of making a composition with their creditors; or

d.  in the opinion of the Council their conduct in other respects renders them unfit to be members of the Institution or is injurious to the Institution.



DISCIPLINARY REGULATIONS

Preamble

1   Professional conduct is governed by a Code of Professional Conduct (the Code) published by the Council which constitutes a term of the membership contract and is therefore binding on each member in whatever country they hold their membership. Alleged breaches of the Code may prove to be founded in fact and deserving of action so each must be investigated by the Council. The principles of the investigation, and any subsequent disciplinary enquiry are that:

    no-one is liable until so found,
    any enquiry will be open and fair, and
    proved breaches of the Code shall attract outcomes commensurate with the seriousness of the breach.


Preliminary Investigation Committee (PIC)

2   The first stage, on receipt of an allegation (the complaint), is a preliminary investigation to determine whether or not there is a case to answer.

3   Such investigation will be conducted by the PIC, on behalf of the Council. This Committee may comprise one or two members of staff and shall be serviced by a member of the I Chem E staff (hereinafter referred to as the Clerk).

4   The Clerk, on receipt of a complaint, lodged by a Complainant, shall inform the PIC and the person complained about (the Subject), and shall seek what elaboration, evidence, and answers he considers necessary.

5   When enough information is available, the Clerk shall convene a meeting of the PIC to consider the complaint and the supporting information. Normally, the Complainant and the Subject would not attend although the PIC may exercise discretion to the contrary. This meeting may be conducted by an exchange of papers.

6   The purpose of the meeting is to decide if there is a case to answer: is there an allegation that the Institution has the authority to consider and is there enough evidence to justify the cost of an enquiry.
 
7   The finding shall be notified to the Subject and the Complainant. A finding of ‘no case to answer’ would dismiss the complaint and, to save unnecessary publicity, would not be reported to the Council. Similarly, a withdrawal of a complaint need not be reported. However, a record will be maintained (consistent with the Data Protection Act 1998) in the minutes of the PIC meeting although the subject’s name should be omitted.

8   A finding of ‘case to answer’ would require that the disciplinary procedure be activated.



Disciplinary Committee (DC)

9   The DC, appointed by the Council as necessary and comprising a standing chairman (who shall chair all disciplinary meetings during his period of office to provide continuity), one lay representative who shall not be a member of the institution or on its Register of practitioners, and at least one practitioner (from a pool of possible members elected by the Council for a period of years of service). None of those eligible to sit on the DC shall serve concurrently on the Council, the PIC or the AC. This Committee shall also be serviced by the Clerk.

10  This DC shall have delegated authority from the Council to enquire into the complaint, and to decide if it is justified, and to recommend appropriate outcomes if it finds the complaint is justified.

11  The Council may appoint a non-participating lawyer to attend to advise on process but not to vote on the decision.

12  Subjects shall be entitled to bring to the hearing a next friend who may be a lawyer whom they will pay to represent them.

13.1    Such enquiries, which are judicial in nature, comprise a statement (by the Complainant or a representative appointed for the purpose – such as the institution’s Chief Executive or solicitor if the Institution chooses to take over the complaint) and evidence to support it (with any cross- examination of witnesses including the other party) followed by a rebuttal (by the Subject or his representative) with evidence (which is also open to cross-examination of witnesses including the other party). Additionally, some evidence may be received by means of written statements at the DC’s discretion. In the alternative, the hearing may take place by exchange of papers at the request of the Subject.

13.2    If the Institution takes on the complaint, the Institution will bear the resulting costs otherwise to be borne by the complainant.

14  At the conclusion of the enquiry, the DC decides, and announces, its decision on the justification or not of the complaint, and its recommendation to the Council, if the complaint is accepted, of an appropriate outcome having heard any mitigation.

15  If the complaint is admitted, the only steps are to hear mitigation and to decide the recommended outcome.

16  The Clerk will inform the parties accordingly and notify them of a right to appeal.

17  Outcomes may be exclusion from membership and withdrawal of membership privileges, including any relevant post nominals and designatory letters, suspension of membership for a period of re-training, or a reprimand with advice or a requirement of retraining or other. Outcomes will be in the form of recommendations to the Council because only the Council of the Institution has the authority to implement them but any such recommendations would be accepted by Council without challenge to avoid any apparent conflict of interest (given that it knows nothing of the facts and supporting evidence)
 
Appeal Committee (AC)

18  If leave to appeal is sought, it must so be done within a month of the publication of the decision of the DC. The right to appeal shall depend only upon new evidence becoming available since the hearing or an apparent injustice at that hearing.

19  The AC, which may be one person of senior rank in the Institution, if it grants the right of appeal on the grounds put forward to support an appeal, shall refer it to a newly- constituted Disciplinary Panel for a re-hearing. The Clerk shall service the AC.

20  Its decision shall be communicated to the Council and to the parties by the Clerk.


The Institute of Chemical Engineers (IChemE) Professional Ethics
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Professional ethics
Being a professional engineer means that the wider public trust you to be competent and to adhere to certain ethical standards. The trust you derive from being seen as a professional is one of the advantages of being a member of IChemE, but it also means you have certain ethical responsibilities.
The aim of a chemical engineer is to be of service to the community and society expects the highest professional standards. Ethics lies at the heart of our discipline.
The Royal Academy of Engineering has published a Statement of Ethical Principles as a code of principles that apply to all engineers, whatever their discipline. The statement was produced in collaboration with the Engineering Council UK which regulates the engineering profession in the UK.
IChemE has pledged its support for the statement and has accepted it as a set of guiding principles for its members.
The role of IChemE as a professional engineering institution is to promote the science and practice of chemical engineering, the standing of the profession, and to serve its members and society. This is set out in the Royal Charter.
Like most professional bodies, IChemE has a number of standards of behaviour expected of its members. All members must agree to abide by the By Laws and Rules of Professional Conduct.
The Duties of Members are set out in sections 12 and 13 of the By Laws. The duties encompass a number of areas of ethical behaviour including: integrity; fairness; health and safety; and competence.
The Rules of Professional Conduct encompass a number of areas of ethical behaviour including: health and safety; environmental damage; competence; integrity; fairness; confidentiality; honesty; and conflicts of interest.
The Institution of Engineers Malaysia
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Malaysia
Type of Organisation: Engineering (including Chemical) 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Professional Conduct and Discipline
1.  Every member shall be bound by the Constitution, Bylaws and Regulations of the Institution.
2.  Every Corporate Member shall at all times so order his conduct as to uphold the dignity and reputation of his profession, and to safeguard the public interest in matters of safety and health and otherwise. He shall exercise his professional skill and judgement to the best of his ability and discharge his professional responsibilities with integrity.
3.  Every member of any grade shall at all times so order his conduct as to uphold the dignity and reputation of the Institution,and act with fairness and integrity towards all persons with whom his work is connected and other members.
4.  For the purpose of ensuring fulfillment of the requirements of Sections 9.2 and 9.3 of the Bylaws, but without prejudice to their generality, the Council may make, vary and rescind the Professional Conduct Regulations to be observed by all members of all grades with regard to their conduct in any respect, which may be relevant to their positions or intended positions as members of the Institution, and may publish directions or pronouncements to the specific conduct which is to be regarded as proper or as improper as the case may be.
5.  No such regulation, variation or rescission shall be in any way repugnant to the Constitution or Bylaws, nor take effect until the same has been notified to all members in writing not less than sixty days, and during which time any fifty Corporate Members may by notice in writing to the Honorary Secretary, require a Special General Meeting to be convened for the purpose of considerinq, confirming or revoking the same.
6.  Every member of any grade in so far as he shall be engaged or employed in any advisory or consultative capacity, shall observe and be bound by the following Code of Professional Conduct and the Professional Conduct Regulations made thereunder.
   He shall act strictly in a fiduciary manner in relation to his clients, and his charges to such clients shall constitute his only remuneration in connection with such work, except as provided by paragraph (d) of this Bylaw.
   He shall not accept any trade commissions, discounts, allowances, or indirect profit in connection with the work upon which he is engaged.
   He shall not, without disclosing the fact in writing to his clients, be a director or member of, or a shareholder in or act as agent for, any contracting or manufacturing company or firm or business with, which he may have occasion to deal on behalf of his clients, or have any financial interest in such a business.
   He shall not receive, directly or indirectly, any royalty, gratuity or commission on any patented or protected article or process used on work which he is carrying out for his clients, unless such royalty, gratuity, or commission has been authorised in writing by those clients.
   He shall not under any circumstances solicit advisory or consultative work, either directly or by an agent, nor shall he pay, by commission or otherwise, any person who may introduce clients to him.
   He shall not be the medium of payments made on his clients' behalf to any contractor, or business firm (unless specially so requested by his clients), but shall only issue certificates or recommendations for payment by his clients.
7.  If a complaint in writing, supported by evidence, is made to the Honorary Secretary that a member has acted in any improper or unprofessional manner, the Executive Committee may, if it considers there are reasonable grounds for so doing, appoint an Ad Hoc Committee on Professional Conduct of not less than three and not more than five Corporate Members consisting wholly or partly of Members of the Council, to investigate the complaint.
8.  Before any meeting of the Ad Hoc Committee is held, the Honorary Secretary shall send by registered post to the member concerned a notice stating the time and place where such meeting is to be held and stating the nature of the matters to be investigated and that he is entitled to attend and to be represented.
9.  Any member whose actions are the subject of such an investigation may appear at such meeting to make representations on his own behalf and or may be represented by another member of the Institution, or by both and may call witnesses and may submit representations in writing, except that in the absence of the member concerned the Ad Hoc Committee may disregard any written representations not in the form of a statutory declaration.
10. The Institution shall not be liable for any expenses incurred by the member in connection with the investigation, but the Council, at its discretion and without prejudice or any admission of liability by so doing, may make a grant to such member, to cover the whole or any part of such expense.
11. If the member fails to appear to the appointed time and place or to make representations as specified in Section 9.9 the Ad Hoc Committee may proceed in his absence.
12. For purposes of its enquiries the Ad Hoc Committee may:
   make or employ any person to make any preliminary enquiries it deems necessary;
   engage counsel who may be present at the enquiry into any matter and advise the committee on matters of law, procedure and evidence;
   receive such evidence, whether legal or otherwise as it thinks fit, and in particular receive evidence by way of the statutory declaration of any person;
   require the member whose conduct is the subject of the investigation to give all information in relation to any books, documents or papers which may be reasonably required by the Committee or by any person employed by it as aforesaid.
13. Subject to the Bylaws, the Ad Hoc Committee may regulate its procedure as it thinks fit.
14. If in the opinion of the Ad Hoc Committee the complaint is not substantiated this decision shall be transmitted to the Council and the member concerned.
15. If, in the opinion of the Ad Hoc Committee, the complaint is substantiated, such Committee shall lay the facts before the Council, which shall consider the report at a meeting at, which not less than two-thirds of the members of the Council are present.
16. If at such meeting not less than two-thirds of the members of the entire Council decide that the member whose conduct is the subject of the investigation has acted in an improper or unprofessional manner, the Council may make one or more of the following orders:
   Expulsion from membership of the Institution; or suspension from membership for any period.
   A fine not exceeding $200.
   Reprimand or admonition.
   Payment of a contribution towards the costs and expenses of the Institution and incidental to any hearing before the Ad Hoc Committee.

The Institute of Professional Engineers New Zealand
Region: WEOG
Country: New Zealand
Type of Organisation: Engineering (including Chemical) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Part I – Values
Protection of Life and Safeguarding People:
Members shall recognise the need to protect life and to safeguard people, and in their engineering activities shall act to address this need.
Professionalism, Integrity and Competence:
Members shall undertake their engineering activities with professionalism and integrity and shall work within their levels of competence.
Commitment to Community Well-being:
Members shall recognise the responsibility of the profession to actively contribute to the well-being of society and, when involved in any engineering activity shall endeavour to identify, inform and consult affected parties.
Sustainable Management and Care for the Environment:
Members shall recognise and respect the need for sustainable management of the planet's resources and endeavour to minimise adverse environmental impacts of their engineering activities for both present and future generations.
Sustaining Engineering Knowledge:
Members shall seek to contribute to the development of their own and the engineering profession's knowledge, skill and expertise for the benefit of society.

Part II – Guidelines
These guidelines are not exhaustive – they are offered as a guide to the understanding and intentions of Part I. They should be read with Part I as a whole and given a free and liberal meaning. They range from exhortations to excellence to prescriptive directions as to what constitutes ethical professional behaviour.
Protection of Life and Safeguarding People:
Members shall recognise the need to protect life and to safeguard people and in their engineering activities shall act to address this need
Under this clause you should have due regard to:
1.1
Giving priority to the safety and well-being of the community and having regard to this principle in assessing obligations to clients, employers and colleagues.
1.2
Ensuring that reasonable steps are taken to minimise the risk of loss of life, injury or suffering which may result from your engineering activities, either directly or indirectly.
1.3
Drawing the attention of those affected to the level and significance of risk associated with the work.
1.4
Assessing and taking reasonable steps to minimise potential dangers involved in the construction, manufacture and use of outcomes of your engineering activities.
Professionalism, Integrity and Competence:
Members shall undertake their engineering activities with professionalism and integrity and shall work within their levels of competence.
Under this clause you should have due regard to:
2.1
Exercising your initiative, skill and judgement to the best of your ability for the benefit of your employer or client.
2.2
Giving engineering decisions, recommendations or opinions that are honest, objective and factual. If these are ignored or rejected you should ensure that those affected are made aware of the possible consequences. In particular, where vested with the power to make decisions binding on both parties under a contract between principal and contractor, acting fairly and impartially as between the parties and (after any appropriate consultation with the parties) making such decisions independently of either party in accordance with your own professional judgement.
2.3
Accepting personal responsibility for work done by you or under your supervision or direction and taking reasonable steps to ensure that anyone working under your authority is both competent to carry out the assigned tasks and accepts a like personal responsibility.
2.4
Ensuring you do not misrepresent your areas or levels of experience or competence.
2.5
Taking care not to disclose confidential information relating to your work or knowledge of your employer or client (or former employer or client) without the agreement of those parties.
2.6
In providing advice to more than one party, ensuring that there is agreement between the parties on which party is the primary client, and what information may be shared with both parties
2.7
Disclosing any financial or other interest that may, or may be seen to, impair your professional judgement.
2.8
Ensuring that you do not promise to, give to, or accept from any third party anything of substantial value by way of inducement.
2.9
First informing another Member before reviewing their work and refraining from criticising the work of other professionals without due cause.
2.10
Upholding the reputation of the Institution and its members, and supporting other members as they seek to comply with the Code of Ethics.
2.11
Following a recognised professional practice (Model Conditions of Engagement are available) in communicating with your client on commercial matters.
 
Commitment to Community Well-being:
Members shall recognise the responsibility of the profession to actively contribute to the well-being of society and, when involved in any engineering activity shall, endeavour to identify, inform and consult affected parties.
Under this clause you should have due regard to:
3.1
Applying your engineering skill, judgement and initiative to contribute positively to the well-being of society.
3.2
endeavouring to identify, inform and consult parties affected, or likely to be affected, by your engineering activities
3.3
Recognising in all your engineering activities your obligation to anticipate possible conflicts and endeavouring to resolve them responsibly, and where necessary utilising the experience of the Institution and colleagues for guidance.
3.4
Treating people with dignity and having consideration for the values and cultural sensitivities of all groups within the community affected by your work.
3.5
Endeavouring to be fully informed about relevant public policies, community needs, and perceptions, which affect your work.
3.6
As a citizen, using your engineering knowledge and experience to contribute helpfully to public debate and to community affairs except where constrained by contractual or employment obligations.
 
Sustainable Management and Care of the Environment:
Members shall recognise and respect the need for sustainable management of the planet's resources and endeavour to minimise adverse environmental impacts of their engineering activities for both present and future generations.
Under this clause you should have due regard to:
4.1
Using resources efficiently.
4.2
Endeavouring to minimise the generation of waste and encouraging environmentally sound reuse, recycling and disposal.
4.3
Recognising adverse impacts of your engineering activities on the environment and seeking to avoid or mitigate them.
4.4
Recognising the long-term imperative of sustainable management throughout your engineering activities. (Sustainable Management is often defined as meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs).
 
Sustaining Engineering Knowledge:
Members shall seek to contribute to the development of their own and the engineering profession's knowledge, skill and expertise for the benefit of society.
Under this clause you should have due regard to:
5.1
Sharing public domain engineering knowledge with other engineers so that the knowledge may be used for the benefit of society.
5.2
Seeking and encouraging excellence in your own and others' practice of engineering.
5.3
Contributing to the collective wisdom of the profession.
5.4
Improving and updating your understanding of the engineering and encouraging the exchange of knowledge with your professional colleagues.
5.5
Wherever possible sharing information about your experiences and in particular about successes and failures.

Part III – Minimum Standards of Acceptable Ethical Behaviour by Members
General obligations to society
1. Take reasonable steps to safeguard health and safety  A Member must, in the course of his or her engineering activities, take reasonable steps to safeguard the health and safety of people.
2. Have regard to effects on environment
(1)
A Member must, in the course of his or her engineering activities,–
 
(a) have regard to reasonably foreseeable effects on the environment from those activities; and  (b) have regard to the need for sustainable management of the environment.
(2)
In this context, sustainable management means management that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations (including at least the future generations within the anticipated lifetime of the end products and by-products of activities) to meet their own reasonably foreseeable needs.
3. Act with honesty, objectivity, and integrity  A Member must act honestly and with objectivity and integrity in the course of his or her engineering activities.
General professional obligations
4. Not misrepresent competence
A Member must–
 
a) not misrepresent his or her competence; and
 
b) undertake engineering activities only within his or her competence; and
 
c) not knowingly permit engineers whose work he or she is responsible for to breach paragraph (a) or paragraph (b).
5. Not misrepresent Membership status A Member must not (in connection with a business, trade, employment, calling, or profession) make a false or misleading representation, or knowingly permit another person to make a false or misleading representation, that services are supplied by a Member of the Institution.
6. Inform others of consequences of not following advice
(1)
A Member who considers that there is a risk of significant consequences in not accepting his or her professional advice must take reasonable steps to inform persons who do not accept that advice of those significant consequences.
(2)
In this context, significant consequences means consequences that involve– (a) significant adverse effects on the health or safety of people; or  (b) significant damage to property; or  (c) significant damage to the environment.

7. Not promise, give, or accept inducements
A Member must not–
 
a) promise or give to any person anything of substantial value intended to improperly influence that person's decisions that relate to the Member's activities; or
 
b) accept from any person anything of substantial value intended to improperly influence his or her professional engineering decisions.
Obligations to employers and clients
8. Not disclose confidential information
(1)
A Member must not disclose confidential information of an employer or client without the agreement of the employer or client.
(2)
Subclause (1) does not apply if– (a) the failure to disclose information would place the health or safety of people at significant and immediate risk; or  (b) the Member is required by law to disclose that information.
9. Not misuse confidential information for personal benefit  A Member who obtains another person's confidential information in connection with one purpose in the course of his or her engineering activities must not use that information for another purpose that is to his or her own personal benefit.
10. Disclose conflicts of interest  A Member must disclose to an employer or client any financial or other interest that is likely to affect his or her judgement on any engineering activities he or she is to carry out for that employer or client.
Obligations owed to other engineers
11. Not review other engineers' work without taking reasonable steps to inform them and investigate
(1)
A Member who reviews another engineer's work for the purpose of commenting on that work must take reasonable steps to– (a) inform that engineer of the proposed review before starting it; and  (b) investigate the matters concerned before commenting.
(2)
Subclause (1) does not apply if taking those steps would result in there being a significant and immediate risk of harm to the health or safety of people, damage to property, or damage to the environment.


The International Council of Chemical Associations
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

The Global Responsible Care Core ® Principles commit companies and national associations to work together to:

  Continuously improve the environmental, health and safety knowledge and performance of our technologies, processes and products over their life cycles so as to avoid harm to people and the environment.

  Use resources efficiently and minimise waste.

  Report openly on performance, achievements and shortcomings.

  Listen, engage and work with people to understand and address their concerns and expectations.

  Cooperate with governments and organisations in the development and implementation of effective regulations and standards, and to meet or go beyond them.
  Provide help and advice to foster the responsible management of chemicals by all those who manage and use them along the product chain.
The International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Science (including chemistry) 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

The mission of the IUBMB is to foster and support the growth and advancement of biochemistry and molecular biology as the foundation from which the biomolecular sciences derive their basic ideas and techniques in the service of mankind.

The members of the Adhering Bodies and Associate Adhering Bodies of the IUBMB are at the forefront in the quest for new knowledge in these sciences which has as its ultimate goal the advancement of human welfare. The IUBMB encourages these members to undertake all of their scientific explorations in the spirit of trust that underlies their obligations to the public, to other investigators and to trainees, as described below.

Obligations to the Public:

    1   They will conform to high ethical, professional and scientific standards in both conducting and reporting their research activities.
    2   They will be guided by, promote and follow practices in a spirit of intellectual honesty to enhance the public interest and well-being.
    3   They will use funds appropriately and responsibly in the pursuit of relevant scientific research.
    4   They will follow government and institutional requirements and those of international and national professional organisations that regulate research such as those that ensure the current and future welfare of both human and non-human subjects of the research and the protection and sustainability of the environment.
    5   They will report the findings of their research arising from public funding with due diligence and in a full, open and timely fashion to the scientific community.
    6   They will share in a reasonable manner unique materials developed through publicly funded research when requested by other scientists who require them for their own legitimate research.
    7   They will not engage knowingly in research that is intended for the production of agents of biological warfare or bioterrorism, nor promote such agents.

Obligations to Other Investigators:

    1   They will have actually performed the experiments as described in their reports and will describe the methods used in sufficient detail that the results they report can be repeated by others.
    2   They will present their best interpretation of their work in their description and discussion of it and will not incorporate the work of others as if it were their own in their reports.
    3   They will summarize honestly, or refer appropriately to, previous relevant work, done either by themselves or by others, in their reports.
    4   They will acknowledge in their publications contributions made by others and refrain from accepting honorary authorships.
    5   They will treat in strict confidence manuscripts and grant applications submitted to them for review, will avoid inappropriate use of information contained in such submissions and will respect any confidential information gained in the exercise of their profession.
    6   Other than in the case of preliminary communications or abstracts they will not submit the same work or work that is substantially similar for publication more than once.
    7   They will disclose any direct or indirect financial and/or other interests that could present a conflict of interest when reporting results, serving as reviewers or mentoring students.
    8   They will not deliberately include misleading or inaccurate information relating to research activity or fail to provide relevant information in their curriculum vitae, grant applications, job applications or public statements.
    9   They will support colleagues who find themselves in difficulties that may arise from adherence to this code and also support the efforts of professional organisations to protect such colleagues.

Obligations to Trainees:

    1   They will provide training and professional guidance and share experiences that advance the scientific knowledge and skills and an appreciation of the ethical, research and professional standards, of the trainees they mentor.
    2   They will ensure that the number of trainees that they mentor at any given time is not too large to permit effective interaction with them and oversight of their research and will provide appropriate help in advancing their careers.
    3   They will provide appropriate help to suitably qualified individuals who seek training and originate from parts of the world where biochemistry and molecular biology are still in the early stages of development and where adequate training opportunities may not be available.
    4   They will maintain their professional competence by keeping abreast of new information and developments in their areas of expertise.
    5   They will give appropriate recognition to the research contributions of their trainees and foster publication of the trainees' research both in a timely fashion and without undisclosed limitations.
    6   They will create and maintain a working environment in which all participants are treated with respect regardless of religion, national origin, gender, political preferences, culture or any other attributes not relevant to the pursuit of scientific research.
The Linde Group
Region: WEOG
Country: Germany
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Code of Ethics.
A comprehensive guide to The Linde Group’s expectations for integrity in the workplace.
1.
Ethics and compliance within The Linde Group
Who we are
The Linde Group is a world-leading gases and engineering company with around 63,500 employees working in more than 100 countries worldwide. The strategy of The Linde Group is geared towards sustainable earnings-based growth and focuses on the expansion of its international business with forward-looking products and services.
What does the code mean for each employee?
Each Linde employee must, using the code as a reference point, learn and comply with the standards and laws that apply to their job. The code applies to all employees, directors and officers. Linde will seek to influence and encourage its business partners to adopt the standards set out in the code. The standards in the code must be applied to all our business operations.
The code does not alter the terms and conditions of employment with Linde. Rather it helps each of us to understand what is expected of us to make sure we always act responsibly and with integrity. Linde will actively monitor the standards set out in the code. Failure to comply with the standards set out in the code may result in disciplinary action, including dismissal, and may also result in criminal or civil prosecution.
Why does Linde need a code?
The standards set out in our code determine how Linde will maintain its relationships with customers, suppliers, governments, other businesses, the environment and people. These standards provide clear guidance on how we are expected to act in certain circumstances and will ensure that Linde’s good reputation will be maintained and enhanced. Failing to follow Linde’s Code of Ethics may expose the organisation and its employees to serious harm – to the business, environment, people and the reputation we have all worked to earn. We could also be exposed to penalties and even imprisonment of individuals in serious cases of misconduct. Acting responsibly is important and requires ever greater care given the ever-changing corporate environment.
How will Linde sustain the code?
The Linde Code of Ethics must effectively manage risk for all businesses and regions within The Linde Group. To manage risk effectively, the code must be a reference point for all employees. To be a reference point, the code must be sustained inside all our businesses. To do so, Linde intends to use a code sustainability programme. Linde will make every effort to sustain the code and will provide training on relevant ethical and legal issues. This programme is designed to maintain credence in the code and keep it up-to-date throughout the company on an ongoing basis.
Does the code include all Linde standards, policies and practices?
The code cannot describe in detail every Linde policy, standard or practice that may apply. Where there are more detailed guidelines or standards to clarify the code, details of how to find these are given within the code itself. The guidelines, standards, policies or information sources referred to in this code are not part of the code itself.
How is the code organised?
The Linde Code of Ethics is structured to reflect the expectations of our main stakeholder groups. Our stakeholders are people with an abiding interest in our company. Customers, suppliers and markets – customers who are satisfied and feel understood; suppliers who appreciate us because we are demanding, yet fair; and markets, in which we play an important role. Shareholders – who expect our organisation to maximise the value of their investment. Employees – who work with enthusiasm and pride because they feel challenged and valued. Communities – in which we play a practical and positive role.
Are there higher standards for managers?
People in management or supervisory roles, depending on their function within the organisation and their corresponding employment duties, are expected to:
    Support and foster a working environment where ethical conduct is recognised, valued and exemplified.
    Ensure that their employees and teams understand and follow the code and have the resources to do so.
    Support employees who raise questions or concerns in good faith about ethical questions.
    Monitor and consistently enforce the standards set down in the code.
    Set a good example and encourage others to do likewise.
Which companies are bound by the code?
All Group companies and subsidiaries and all companies that Linde controls or of which it has managing control must observe the Linde Code of Ethics. In joint ventures where Linde does not have control, Linde will seek to influence and encourage its joint venture partner to adopt the standards set out in the Linde Code of Ethics.
Does the code cover local laws?
Linde does business throughout the world and this means that employees are subject to laws in the different countries in which they operate. The code sets minimum standards of behaviour expected within Linde. Where local laws or other existing Linde policies are more onerous than our code,
the local laws or respective other Linde policies will apply. If you are unclear about which laws or policies apply to you and your job then please consult your line manager or your legal department.
Non retaliation policy
Linde will not tolerate and strictly prohibits retaliation against anyone who reports issues or concerns in good faith.
Values
The Linde Code of Ethics is designed to build and enhance the ethical integrity of all its employees and directors. In that regard, the Code of Ethics supports the Linde corporate vision, values and principles.
2.
The Linde Group Integrity Line
Whilst working for The Linde Group, there may be occasions where individual employees have concerns about their work or the business of the company. Employees are encouraged in such circumstances to share and discuss these issues with their line manager before considering other avenues for resolving their concerns. If it is not possible to share or discuss a concern with a line manager then an employee can choose to raise certain qualified concerns through The Linde Group Integrity Line.
Integrity Line
Web-Portal
 * Linde Group Homepage www.linde.com
 Phone
 * External Call Centre
 Internal
and External Stakeholders
E-mail
Mail
Fax
*    
integrity@linde.com
*   Integrity Line Facilitator Klosterhofstrasse 1
80331 Munich, Germany
→ +49.89.35757-1003
The Linde Group Integrity Line as described below is an integral part of ethics and compliance within Linde and the means by which concerns or allegations may be raised by both internal and external stakeholders of The Linde Group. The Linde Group Integrity Line will operate in
a respective jurisdiction or business, having taken into account all necessary consultation requirements and the approval processes mandated under applicable local law. You will be informed when and how The Linde Group Integrity Line will be introduced and operated in your organisation. The Integrity Line shall be managed collaboratively by the Linde Integrity Committee, comprising Group representatives from Corporate Communications, Human Resources, Internal  Audit and Legal.
Integrity Line Facilitator
Linde Integrity Committee – Group representatives from Corporate Communications, Human Resources, Internal Audit and Legal
Employees who have questions, need advice or want to report a (potential) violation of The Linde Group Code of Ethics will be able to speak with their line manager or supervisor. If the (potential) violations involve the supervisor or line manager, the employee is able to talk to another manager or with Human Resources, Internal Audit or a Legal representative.
If for any reason an employee cannot raise a certain qualified concern with their line manager
or with any of the other people or functionaries named above, then they will still be able to raise their concerns 24 hours a day, 7 days a week through the Integrity Line in the areas of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters, improper payments, and banking and financial violations where the interests not only of the local Linde entity but of several Linde entities or of the entire Linde Group are affected. There are several ways this can be done:
    Through a dedicated web portal designed to receive concerns.
    Through a globally accessible Integrity Line phone operated through a third party company that manages these calls for The Linde Group.
    By e-mail to a dedicated confidential inbox operated by the Integrity Line Facilitator – integrity@linde.com.
    By normal post marked for the attention of the Integrity Line Facilitator – Klosterhofstrasse 1, 80331 Munich, Germany.
      By fax +49.89.35757-1003.
However, the foregoing means of raising questions, obtaining help or reporting an incident are not exclusive. Employees remain free to raise questions, obtain help or report an incident in any
other appropriate manner. Once a concern is received, it will be logged on a dedicated confidential database, given a unique identifying number and be dealt with by the Integrity Line Facilitator.
This will be done in accordance with the applicable process designed to ensure that all concerns are treated fairly, dealt with quickly and communicated appropriately. All concerns reported to the Integrity Line Facilitator will be dealt with in accordance with data protection legislation. Linde will not tolerate retaliation against any concern that is reported in good faith.
3.
Making ethical decisions
On some occasions, whilst the Linde Code of Ethics may give you some guidance on a specific set of circumstances, you may still feel uncertain about what decision to make. You should try to consult with your line manager or supervisor in such a situation.
The following diagram sets out considerations that others have found helpful in making a decision. It is by no means be conclusive. In addition, your legal department is prepared to clarify things with you.
Linde believes that business relationships founded on openness and trust, where both parties benefit, will drive growth and prosperity for customers, suppliers and the markets. Linde will always seek to understand the needs of its customers and other third parties.
Linde will also conduct itself fairly and honestly, always competing as vigorously as possible within legal boundaries.
Where an ethical issue arises please consult the following diagram to guide your thinking:
Once you have formulated your decision:
4.
Dealing with our customers, suppliers and markets
4.1 Competition
Issue
    Competition or anti trust laws are designed to protect free and fair competition and ensure that the best interests of the consumer are served.
    These laws apply in every country in which Linde has business interests and some laws apply across jurisdictional boundaries.
Guidance
    Linde supports vigorous, lawful and ethical competition and will comply with all competition or anti trust laws wherever it does business.
Further information
    Anticompetitive behaviour, such as entering into unlawful agreements with competitors, has very severe consequences:
–   Fines of up to ten percent of global Group turnover.
–   Prison sentences for individuals convicted of price-fixing.
–   Private actions can be brought against a company by its customers for damages.
–   Serious reputational harm, which in turn can affect a company’s share price.
    Even unintentional violations may be punishable.
Any violations of competition laws will not be tolerated by The Linde Group.
When you have any doubts concerning competition law issues, you should always consult with your legal department.
4.2 International trade
Issue
    All countries regulate the way products are exported and imported. These export control regulations apply to transactions with third parties and between related companies and apply across international boundaries.
    Certain products, software and information cannot be directly or indirectly exported to specified countries.
Guidance
    Linde will observe and support all laws and regulations governing how companies may export and import products, services and information to any part of the globe.
    The Linde Group will create and maintain a trade compliance programme.
Further Information
    Doing business in embargoed countries, or with embargoed persons or embargoed organisations is subject to restrictions or may be outright illegal.
    Violators may be subject to serious penalties, including fines and, in the case of individuals, even imprisonment.
4.3 Dealing with governments

Issue
    Special care must be taken when:
–   dealing with the government as a customer or
–   dealing with a government regulator.
    Severe sanctions can apply to violations of such rules.
Guidance
    Linde employees must take care not to expose Linde to unnecessary risk during such dealings.
    Any information provided to a government, either as a customer or as a regulator must be truthful and accurate and protect Linde’s legitimate interests effectively.
    Your legal department can provide guidance in relation to your interaction with any government regulator.
4.4 Our products
Issue
    Many of Linde’s products are heavily regulated, mainly because they are used in industries or fields such as healthcare.
Guidance
    Linde develops innovative solutions and produces sophisticated products that meet the individual needs of our customers.
    Linde researches, develops and works for the benefit of people who use our products.
    Linde strives to ensure that our products are made to the highest standards with respect to safety, health, the environment and quality (SHEQ).
Further information
    For further information on the regulation of medical products or on SHEQ, visit our intranet site.
4.5 Ethical purchasing
Issue
    Linde’s suppliers play a critical role in its ability to operate and provide products and services to its customers.
    The ethical performance of Linde’s suppliers is scrutinised by our external stakeholders and can affect the way Linde is viewed.
Guidance
    Linde will choose suppliers carefully based on merit.
    Linde requires its suppliers to comply with legal requirements and to act in a manner that is consistent with Linde’s Code of Ethics.
    Linde expects its suppliers to actively cooperate in achieving the objectives of the SHEQ policy.
4.6 Advertising
Issue
    Linde’s reputation is valuable.
    To help ensure the ongoing trust of our customers, marketing, advertising and sales activities must describe our offerings and services legally, fairly and honestly.
    Linde’s trademarks must be used consistently and appropriately to avoid loss of our legal rights.
Guidance
    If a customer or supplier wants to use Linde’s name or logo in their advertising, this must be approved by the communications department at the regional or Group level.
    All official advertising and promotions must be approved by Corporate Communications or by a regional communications manager.
    Practices that are false, misleading or deceptive are strictly prohibited.
5.
Dealing with our shareholders
5.1 Financial reporting and communication
Issue
    Shareholders, financial analysts, creditors, lenders and other members of the public rely on Linde to provide them with reliable information regarding the company’s operations, performance and outlook.
    Linde’s credibility is measured in particular by the integrity of its books, record keeping and financial reporting.
    Failure to keep accurate and complete records can be construed as a financial irregularity or as fraud.
Guidance
    Linde will implement and maintain effective business controls to ensure that financial reporting has a sound basis to work from.
    All relevant Linde employees must help to ensure that the reporting of business information – computerised, on paper or in any other format – is accurate, honest and timely.
    Linde will provide all members of the public with equal access to the same honest and accurate information.
    Any enquiries from the investment community must be forwarded to Investor Relations. Employees should not answer any questions from the investment community or the press.
5.2 Insider dealing
Issue
    Insider dealing laws prevent people from trading for their own or another person’s benefit based on relevant information, which they become aware of ahead of the market.
    Insider dealing typically occurs when an insider or a related party trades in shares or other securities based on material or non-public information obtained through the insider’s job, stolen or otherwise misappropriated.
Guidance
    Linde is firmly committed to supporting fair and open securities (equities or stock) markets throughout the world.
    Linde employees, like all other people, are prohibited from dealing in shares or other securities belonging to Linde, any publicly quoted company within The Linde Group, or any other company based on “inside information” obtained from their jobs.
5.3 Protecting company secrets
Issue
    Linde’s intellectual property is its competitive edge.
    Linde’s confidential information is critical to the company’s success.
    Innovative products and solutions are important to the continuous growth of Linde.
    Linde produces valuable, non public ideas, strategies and other business information,
i. e. intellectual property, which it owns and needs to protect.
    Misappropriating third parties’ confidential information can expose Linde and its employees to risk.
    Various laws protect confidential information.
Guidance
    Employees must take adequate steps to protect Linde’s confidential information, which they have in their possession.
    Linde will not use the confidential information they have on other companies.
    All inventions made by employees or by third parties for use by Linde must be given adequate legal protection.
    Licences for Linde’s patents or know-how must be negotiated and issued only in coordination with the legal department and company management.
    All employees must respect confidential information belonging to others.
5.4 Protecting company assets
Issue
    Linde company assets, whether in physical or intangible form, are intended to help employees achieve business goals.
    Damaged, stolen, misused or wasted company assets impact negatively on all of us and the operational and financial performance of Linde.
Guidance
    Company assets must be used for legitimate business purposes only.
    Employees may occasionally use company resources, such as photocopy machines or telephones for personal use provided that there are no significant increased costs, other employees are
not being distracted or inconvenienced, and other Linde standards are being followed (Linde’s Information Services (IS) access rules). Local policies permitting a certain use of Linde’s facilities are not hereby affected.
    Employees must use Information Technology (IT) assets in accordance with IS Policy.
6.
Dealing with our employees
6.1 Conflicts of interest
Issue
    Avoiding or managing situations where other interests of employees may impair their ability to make unbiased decisions on behalf of the company.
    Conflicts of interest raise doubts about the quality of the business decisions made and the integrity of the person making those decisions.
Guidance
    Conflicts of interest, or even the appearance of a conflict of interest, must be avoided at all times.
    Where conflicts cannot be avoided, they must be carefully managed.
    All employees must actively disclose to their manager any apparent or real conflicts and must work with such manager to discuss, document and manage these conflicts.
6.2 Bribery
Issue
    Bribery is the giving to or receiving by any person of anything of value, either directly
or indirectly, as an inducement to gain an advantage or influence contrary to the principles of honesty and integrity.
Guidance
    Linde will not tolerate bribery in any form.
    Employees should never give or accept, directly or indirectly, a bribe in any form.
    Third parties acting on behalf of Linde are prohibited from giving or accepting bribes, directly or indirectly.
6.3 Gifts and entertainment
Issue
    Giving or receiving gifts or entertainment can build understanding and goodwill in everyday business life.
    They can also erode the confidence and trust of others if not managed correctly in your business decisions and in the management of The Linde Group.
    They can also appear unfair to other stakeholders.
Guidance
    A gift and entertainment policy may be applicable to your business, function or region. You should review and act in accordance with the policy relevant to you.
6.4 Data protection
Issue
    Laws govern the way in which companies can gather, use and circulate personal data belonging to employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties.
    These laws, particularly in the EU, have fundamental criminal sanctions.
Guidance
    Linde is committed to protecting the personal data of its employees, customers, suppliers and others.
    Linde will only acquire, collect, process, use and retain personal data that is required for the effective operation of Linde or required by law.
6.5 Safety, Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ)
Issue
    Our vision is: “At The Linde Group, we do not want to harm people or the environment.”
    Safety, health, care for the environment, and quality are all pre-requisites to any business Linde undertakes.
    We all take personal responsibility for SHEQ.
    Managers at all levels demonstrate visible leadership.
    The company guidelines are laid down in The Linde Group’s SHEQ policy.
Guidance
    Linde is committed to creating and managing a safe, secure and healthy working environment.
    There are no higher priorities than the safety, health and the security of our employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
    Consistently good conduct and continuous improvement in these areas are fundamental goals of our company and are pursued as an integral feature of all business processes and programmes.
6.6 Human Rights
Issue
    The General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The core principles of the International Bill of Human rights have been adopted by most countries and reflect public and international expectations.
    Principles addressed include:
–   Right to be respected (Article 1)
–   Prohibition of discrimination and harassment (Article 2)
–   Right to privacy (Article 3)
–   Prohibition of slavery or servitude (Article 4)
–   Freedom of peaceful assembly and association (Article 20)
–   Right to fair remuneration (Article 23).
Guidance
    Linde supports the protection and promotion of human rights
6.7 Dealing with each other
Issue
    Linde is a global company with around 63,500 employees operating in more than 100 countries worldwide.
    Linde’s strength is the diversity of its people.
    Laws and regulations govern how Linde must treat its employees in every country where Linde does business.
Guidance
    Linde is committed to fostering a workplace that is safe and that is founded on fair employment practices.
    Linde will respect the rights and dignity of all employees.
    Linde believes that every employee is entitled to fair treatment, courtesy and respect.
    Linde will not tolerate unlawful discrimination, abuse or harassment in any form.
7.
Dealing with communities and the public
7.1 Corporate Responsibility
Issue
    Linde’s Corporate Responsibility philosophy is based on the company’s vision, values and principles: to demonstrate responsible behaviour and action towards each other, our communities and our environment.
    Linde pursues a clear Corporate Responsibility strategy.
    Linde acts in a responsible way towards its stakeholders – in every Regional Business Unit and at every business location worldwide.
Guidance
    Linde is committed to developing technologies and products that combine customer benefit with sustainability.
    We actively support educational and research projects related to our core business areas.
    We demonstrate our accountability towards our stakeholders by issuing regular reports on Corporate Responsibility.
7.2 Political activity
Issue
    The laws of certain countries set strict limits on contributions by companies to political parties and candidates.
    Violators may be subject to serious penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
Guidance
    Linde employees may not make any direct or indirect political contributions to candidates, office holders or political parties on behalf of Linde unless authorised in writing by the appropriate level of management.









The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Practice
Region: WEOG
Country: Netherlands
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Practice

Principles of good scientific teaching and research

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Practice
Preamble    3
Principles and best practices   5
I.  Scrupulousness  5
II. Reliability 6
III.    Verifiability   7
IV. Impartiality    8
V.  Independence    9
Commentary  10
Dilemmas    11
NB: to enhance the readability, this Code uses 'he' to refer to the third person singular; in all instances the reader is requested to interpret this as 'he/she'.
 

The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Practice

Preamble
1.  This Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Practice was drawn up at the request of the c\ssociation of Universities in the Netherlands (Vereniging van Universiteiten, VSNU). The wish for a Code of Con- duct stems from the generally shared conviction that (employees of) institutes that fulfil a societal role are held to a proper exercise of their duties. Rules that establish correct practice should be entrusted  to paper to provide common ground and, if necessary, ground for admonishment.

2.  The Code applies to scientific practice, which is understood to include scientific teaching and re- search at all universities in the Netherlands. More precisely, the Code is intended for the individual scientific practitioner. This Code does not aim to provide guidelines for university administration.

3.  The Code presumes the administratively autonomous university that safeguards the academic liberty of the scientific practitioners engaged there. It is the university's responsibility to let this liberty fit in- to the frameworks of the established education and research programmes.

4.  c\t the same time, the Code presumes that the university is a collaborative venture of diverse stake- holders in the university. Stakeholders are the staff and the students, but also the government, com- munity entities and the corporate world. The integrity of each scientific practitioner is an essential condition for maintaining stakeholders' faith in science. Integrity is the cornerstone of good scientific practice.

5.  The Code contains principles that all scientific practitioners allied with a university (teachers and re- searchers) should observe individually, among each other and towards society. The principles can be read as general notions of good scientific practice; they are not intended as supplementary judicial rules. The overarching principle is that every scientific practitioner is bound to the frameworks estab- lished by Dutch and international legislation. These legal frameworks are not discussed in this Code of Conduct. c\ second overarching principle is transparency; every scientific practitioner must (be able to) demonstrate how he puts these principles into practice.

6.  The Code describes desirable conduct and is, in this regard, complementary to the regulations estab- lished by the universities and the National Committee for Scientific Integrity Regulations (Landelijk Orgaan Wetenschappelijke Integriteit, LOWI) on how to deal with undesirable conduct. Therefore, this Code does not contain sanction rules or complaints procedures.

7.  The principles defined in this Code are detailed further in 'best practices'. These best practices, which provide a certain set of norms for the conduct of teachers and researchers, reflect the national and in- ternational understanding of good scientific teaching and research. Under particular circumstances, deviation may be justified. The applicability of the provisions depends on the concrete circumstances under which the scientific practitioner operates. Moreover, the circumstances under which the uni- versity operates are also regularly subject to change. Nonetheless, every practitioner must, if required, be able to explain and motivate if - and if so, to what extent and why - he is at variance with the best practices of the university Code of Conduct (the rule "apply or explain").
 

8.  The Code consists of this preamble, the principles and the best practices. The Code is divided into five parts:
I.  Scrupulousness
II. Reliability
III.    Verifiability
IV. Impartiality
V.  Independence
The Code is followed by a commentary on the principles. Finally, a number of dilemmas have been added to encourage reflection and discussion.

9.  c\ll universities and their scientific staff will make the necessary effort to familiarise themselves with the content of this Code without delay. In addition, the universities will ensure that the Code is dis- cussed by the academic community, particularly by incorporating the Code of Conduct into the teaching of aspiring scientists (in the graduate and post-graduate courses). This will enhance the awareness of what good scientific teaching and research entails.

10. The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Practice was established by the General Board of the c\sso- ciation of Universities (c\lgemeen Bestuur van de Vereniging van Universiteiten) on 17 December 2004, and came into force as from 1 January 2005.
 

PRINCIPLES AND BEST PRACTICES

I.  Scrupulousness

 
Principle
 

Scientific activities are performed scrupulously, unaffected by mounting pressure to achieve.
 

Best Practice
I.1 Scrupulousness is expressed through precision and nuance in providing scientific instruction and conducting scientific research and the publishing of results thereof.
I.2 Every scientific practitioner demonstrates respect for the people and animals involved in scientific teaching and research. Research on human subjects is only permitted upon their freely given informed consent and if there are no or just the slightest of risks. The privacy of subjects involved is sufficiently protected. If research on humans or animals poses any kind of risk, the significance of the research must justify taking that risk.
I.3 c\ccurate source references serve to ensure that credit is awarded where credit is deserved. This also applies to information gathered via the Internet.
I.4 c\uthorship is acknowledged. Rules common to the scientific discipline are observed.
I.5 Scrupulousness is not restricted to the transfer of information, but also applies to relations among scientific practitioners and with students.
I.6 Good mentorship is essential: a student and junior staff member are in a position of depend- ency. The responsibilities of persons involved in teaching and research are clearly defined  and observed at all times.
I.7 c\ scientific practitioner avoids personal relationships that may give rise to reasonable doubt concerning the objectivity of his decisions, or that may result in any form of coercion or ex- ploitation of a hierarchically subordinate person.
I.8 The assessment of study performance is based on explicit criteria that have been announced in advance. Teachers are prepared to explain every assessment, while students are sufficiently aware of the matter on which they will be assessed.
I.9 c\ scientific practitioner ensures that he maintains the level of expertise required to exercise his duties. He does not accept duties for which he lacks the necessary expertise. If necessary, he actively indicates the limits of his competence.
I.10    Damages as a result of errors or negligence are repaired to the best of one's ability.
I.11    c\ scientific practitioner is co-responsible for the quality of the educational programme in which he provides instruction, and for the scientific and societal value of the research pro- grammes in which he participates. He acts according to his own preferences only insofar as this is reconcilable with this responsibility.
 

II. Reliability

 
Principle
 

Science,s reputation of reliability is confirmed and enhanced through the conduct of every scientific practitioner. A scientific practitioner is reliable in the performance of his research and in the reporting, and equally in the transfer of knowledge through teaching and publication.
 

Best Practice
II.1    The selective omission of research results is reported and justified. The data has indeed been collected. The statistical methods employed are pertinent to the acquired data.
II.2    Speculation spurred by results of scientific research is recognizably presented as such. This does not include conclusions on the basis of the presented results. Suggestions for follow-up research may rest on speculation, in the form of an interpretation of the acquired results.
II.3    The system of peer review can only function on the assumption that intellectual property is recognized and respected.
II.4    c\ scientific practitioner provides a complete and honest overview of his skills whenever a decision concerning his career or duties is pending.
II.5    In transferring information in education, a selective representation of available knowledge is either avoided or justified. c\ clear distinction is made between transferred knowledge and personal opinion or related speculation.
 

III.    Verifiability

 
Principle
 

Presented information is verifiable. Whenever research results are publicized, it is made clear what the data and the conclusions are based on, where they were derived from and how they can be verified.
 

Best Practice
III.1   Research must be replicable in order to verify its accuracy. The choice of research question, the research set-up, the choice of method and the reference to sources studied is accurately documented.
III.2   The quality of data collection, data input, data storage and data processing is guarded closely. c\ll steps taken must be properly reported and their execution must be properly monitored (lab journals, progress reports, documentation of arrangements and decisions, etc.).
III.3   Raw research data are stored for at least five years. These data are made available to other scientific practitioners at request.
III.4   Raw research data are archived in such a way that they can be consulted at a minimum ex- pense of time and effort.
III.5   The source of all educational material, including oral information transfer, is stated.
 

IV. Impartiality

 
Principle
 

In his scientific activities, the scientific practitioner heeds no other interest than the scientific interest. In this respect, he is always prepared to account for his actions.
 

Best Practice
IV.1    Scientific practitioners give others room to take their own intellectual stance. This applies particularly in case of a hierarchical relation, like the relation between a teacher and a student or a tutor and a PhD student.
IV.2    The choice of methods and criteria is guided solely by the goal of truth-finding, and not by external goals such as commercial success or political influence.
IV.3    c\ reviewer consults his conscience as to whether he can offer an impartial assessment of a manuscript, for instance when it concerns a competing research group.
IV.4    In assessing the performance of others (peer review in education, research and manuscripts), a scientific practitioner heeds arguments of scientific substance. He refrains from assessing a manuscript if he is in any way involved in the education or research concerned.
IV.5    c\ scientific practitioner only defends a certain scientific viewpoint if that viewpoint is based on sufficient scientific grounds. Competing viewpoints must be mentioned and explained.
IV.6    Exclusively assigning one's own study books in education is avoided, in any case at under- graduate level.
IV.7    In its annual report, every university reports on its registration of sideline activities by its staff. Every university registers the sideline activities relevant to scientific practice. Prefera- bly, this register is made publicly accessible.
IV.8    Every scientific practitioner allied with a university provides the institution with an up-to- date overview of his sideline activities for registration purposes.
 

V.  Independence

 
Principle
 

Scientific practitioners operate in a context of academic liberty and independence. Insofar as restrictions of that liberty are inevitable, these are clearly stated.
 

Best Practice
V.1 Whenever a scientific practitioner is commissioned to provide instruction or conduct re- search, he is allowed - once the parameters have been defined - to execute the assignment without interference by the commissioning party. The research question is of interest to sci- ence, aside from the commissioning party's particular concern. The method employed is sci- entifically valid. The commissioning party has no influence on the research results.
V.2 Commissioned assignments demonstrably contribute to scientific teaching or research.
V.3 There is no unclarity as to the identity of the commissioning party of a certain scientific ac- tivity, the relation between the commissioning party and the executing party, the existence of consultancy relations or other connections, etc.
V.4 The publication of scientific research results is guaranteed. c\rrangements with an external financier always stipulate that the scientific practitioner is at liberty to publish the results within a specified, reasonable period.
V.5 External financiers of executed projects are identified by name. For research this means that their names are stated in the publication; for education this means that they are referred to in the course announcement and teaching material.
 


Commentary on the principles set forth in the Code


I.  Scrupulousness:
Main entry: Scrupulous
1: having moral integrity : acting in strict regard for what is considered right or proper
2: punctiliously exact : <working with scrupulous care>

The actions of a scientific practitioner are scrupulous if they are performed with the dedication and the precision that the proper exercise of the profession requires. c\lthough the scientific practitio- ner's concern in regard to this principle shall be primarily aimed at promoting the aims for which the profession is intended, the principle of scrupulousness also means not inflicting unnecessary or disproportional damage to the interests of third parties.


II. Reliability:
1   : the quality or state of being reliable
2   : the extent to which an experiment, test, or measuring procedure yields the same results on repeated trials

c\ scientific practitioner acts reliably if he does not fail the justified expectations of others regarding the exercise of his profession.
Reliability concerns both the conduct of the scientific practitioner and his written work. c\ very specific meaning of the term reliability is found in the statistical concept of reliability, which con- cerns the analysis of experimentally acquired data. Whenever relevant, publications make mention of this statistical uncertainty of research results. Within the context of this Code, the principle of reliability is understood in its broadest sense.


III.    Verifiability:
capable of being verified [Verify: to establish the truth, accuracy or reality of]

Conduct is verifiable if it is possible for others to assess whether it complies with relevant stan- dards (for instance of quality or decency).


IV. Impartiality:
Main Entry: impartial
not partial or biased : treating or affecting all equally

c\ scientific practitioner is impartial if he does not let personal interest, preference, affection or prejudice affect his judgment and decisions.


V.  Independence:
the quality or state of being independent [Independent: not subject to control by others; not requiring or relying on some- thing else]

When presenting insights as correct and relevant, a scientific practitioner is independent if he al- lows himself to be influenced by another person's judgement only to the degree that this judgement is deserving of scientific authority.



The definitions of the principles provided in cursive derive from Merriam Webster Online (www.m-w.com).
 


Dilemmas

The authors of this Code of Conduct are well aware that this Code does not solve all problems. One can think or actually know of 'grey areas' and dilemmas to which the Code is not directly applicable. To en- courage discussion of the Code and its limitations, a number of such cases are set out below.


I.  Dilemmas regarding scrupulousness

I.a c\ well-known scientist has a reputation for his intuitive approach. This approach tends to result in a number of 'loose ends' which he leaves to his subordinates to tie up. Without their contribution ('the dirty work'), his ideas would not progress beyond the status of interesting observations. Nevertheless, the scientific community wholly credits this group production to the well-known figure, who clearly relishes the recognition. Is this acceptable?

I.b May you relinquish restraint in formulating moral and political viewpoints in the media, if your colleagues see no need for preserving nuance and casually express viewpoints which you perceive to be wrong?

I.c c\ certain researcher is a true perfectionist. Because he refuses to publish research results be- fore they comply with standards that exceed those of his colleagues, the total output of his research group threatens to be lower than seems desirable for the upcoming visitation. May his colleagues expect him to lower his standards?


II. Dilemmas regarding reliability

II.a    c\ teacher is held in high esteem by his students because of his enthusiasm and eloquence. However, carried away by his own passion he sometimes paints pictures that transgress the limits of current knowledge, without indicating this transgression. Is this acceptable?

II.b    c\ researcher has collected a large amount of data and has published results on a socially rele- vant subject. On the basis of these results, he expresses critical views on this subject. Subse- quent to receiving a commission in his area of competence from a third-party stakeholder (the government), he writes a report that is markedly more positive in tone. This shift is  based on a slight modification in a number of presuppositions and statistical significance lev- els, which he attributes to an advance in insight and improved measuring methods. The re- port is assigned a key role in the government's decision making, but colleague researchers are outraged. Is the researcher reproachable?


III.    Dilemmas regarding verifiability

III.a   c\ researcher has performed commissioned research on the basis of an agreement that the results remain confidential for two years; in that period the client can use the results for his own (financial) gain. c\fter two years, the researcher publishes the results in a renowned journal. c\n interested yet sceptical colleague wishes to access the raw data to verify whether the claims in the article are justified, but the researcher refuses to release the data on the ba- sis of the commission contract. This states that the raw data should remain confidential for five years, after which the researcher may destroy the data. Is this acceptable?

III.b   c\ teacher has written a study book intended for first year students. To increase its readability he has not used source references, offering instead a list of further reading recommendations
 


per chapter. In writing the book, he nevertheless made extensive use of the work of col- leagues from all over the world. Should he have made detailed mention of this?


IV. Dilemmas regarding impartiality

IV.a    c\ scientist is asked for a reference to support a candidate for a substantial individual subsidy. He strongly suspects that other candidates have received inflated references. Should he nev- ertheless offer a thoroughly honest and impartial assessment?

IV.b    c\ teacher is involved in compiling a list of compulsory literature for a course. He proposes a book of his own, for which he receives royalties. If his book is listed, should he be required to transfer the ensuing income?

IV.c    Researchers have patented a certain discovery, and now wish to capitalize on this patent. This requires additional research, which they would like to perform at their own institute. Is this acceptable or should they establish an independent entity (e.g. an Ltd.)?


V.  Dilemmas regarding independence

V.a How much influence may a client have on the research problem statement? Or on the in- tended approach and method? (When) is he entitled to steer the course of the research? Or of the research reporting?

V.b c\ particular research project that has been submitted to open tender is amenable to two dif- ferent research methods. Method c\ is expensive but very reliable. Method B is much cheaper, yet much less reliable. c\ researcher is considering submitting a proposal, and judges Method c\ to be the most appropriate. May he nevertheless choose for Method B in his pro- posal, in an attempt to increase his chances of winning the commission?

V.c May you modify a research proposal in an NWO*-programme to suit the theoretical prefer- ences of the heads of the programme, which can sometimes be deduced from the pro- gramme description?

(*Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research)
 
Colophon

The text of the Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Practice was written by a VSNU-working group con- sisting of the following persons:

-   Prof. P.F. van der Heijden, Rector Magnificus Universiteit van c\msterdam (chairman);
-   Prof. J. Fokkema, Rector Magnificus Delft University of Technology;
-   Prof. S.W.J. Lamberts, Rector Magnificus Erasmus University Rotterdam;
-   Prof. G.P.M.F. Mols, Rector Magnificus Universiteit Maastricht;
-   Prof. G.c\. den Hartogh, professor of Ethics and its history, Faculty of Humanities, Universiteit van c\msterdam;
-   Dr. M.E.c\. Stouthard, research manager c\msterdam Centre for Health and Health Care Research, Universiteit van c\msterdam;
-   Dr. c\.c\. Post, senior research policy advisor, Universiteit van c\msterdam (secretary). c\msterdam, 25 October 2004
The Nigerian Society of Engineers
Region: African Group
Country: Nigeria
Type of Organisation: Engineering (including Chemical)
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

CODE OF ENGINEERING CONDUCT
Every member is expected in his general conduct to uphold and enhance the honour and dignity of the Engineering profession and the reputation of the Nigerian Society of Engineers and to act always in the public interest:
    A member shall make available his professional knowledge and experience in accordance with his code as a consultant or adviser, or a salaried employee, or a teacher of Engineering Science, or in design, or manufacture, or construction as a faithful agent and trustee of his client, employer, or other people connected with the works.
    A member shall not practice in a dual capacity as a consultant and as a contractor for the same project except with the prior written consent of the client.
    A member shall not place orders on his own behalf in respect of a project on which he is engaged but shall only do so explicitly on behalf of his client.
    A member shall not be the medium of payments made on his clientâ€™s behalf unlessspecifically so requested in writing by his client, but shall only issue certificate for payments.
    A member shall not take part in competition involving the submission of proposals and designs for engineering work unless an assessor which shall be an Engineer of acknowledged standing has been appointed to whom all such proposals and designs are to be submitted for adjudication.
    A member shall not invite or submit priced proposals under conditions that constitute price competition for professional services.
    A member shall not advertise engineering services in self-laudatory language or in any other manner derogatory to the dignity of the profession.
    A member, on engineering works in a foreign country the members may adapt his conduct according to the professional standards and customs of the country, but shall adhere as closely as practicable to the principles of this code.
The Royal Australian Chemical Institute
Region: WEOG
Country: Australia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

THE ROYAL AUSTRALIAN
CHEMICAL INSTITUTE INCORPORATED
CODE OF ETHICS - By-law 13
13.1 All members of the RACI shall observe and be
bound by the following Code of Ethics:
13.1.1 a member shall endeavour to advance the
honour, integrity and dignity of the profession
of chemistry. However, notwithstanding this
or any other By-law, the responsibility for the
welfare, health and safety of the community
shall at all times take precedence;
13.1.2 a member shall not, except in circumstances
establishing privileges at Law, make
untruthful, disparaging remarks or unwarranted
comment about other members, nor shall the
member make any public statement purporting
to be the policy of the RACI when such is not
the case;
13.1.3 reasonable criticism of a member’s conduct of
views at any meetings of the RACI shall be
privileged;
13.1.4 a member may declare his or her membership
of the RACI and include the grade of
membership during the advertising of his or
her professional services.
13.1.5 a member shall not use any unfair, improper or
questionable method of securing professional
work or advancement;
13.1.6 a member shall only issue or publish reports or
statements that are an accurate record of
soundly based observation and experiment and
of logical deductions, or are clearly expressing
an opinion;
13.1.7 a member shall not allow his or her name to
continue to be associated with a misleading
advertisement, nor with a statement making an
unfair comparison between one product and
another;
13.1.8 a member shall apply his or her professional
skill and knowledge in the interests of his or
her employer or client for whom they shall act.
Furthermore, a member shall at all times avoid
placing himself or herself under any obligation
to any person or firm who may have dealings
with his or her employer or client, without the
knowledge of his or her employer or client;
13.1.9 a member shall inform his or her employer or
client if circumstances arise in which his or her
judgement or advice may be called in question
by reason of business connections, personal
relationships, interests or affiliations;
13.1.10 a member shall declare the receipt, either
directly or indirectly, of any royalty, gratuity or
commission in respect of any patented or
protected article or process used in any work,
with the design or supervision of which he or
she may be connected, to his or her employer
or client in cases where a potential conflict of
interest may be perceived;
13.1.11 a member shall not use for his or her personal
gain or advantage, nor disclose confidential
information which he or she may acquire as a
result of special opportunities arising out of
work done for his or her client or employer;
13.1.12 a member shall perform work only in his or her
areas of competence and shall inform his or her
employer or client when, in the member's
opinion, the advice of a specialist or expert is
desirable;
13.1.13 a member shall afford to those under his or her
direction every reasonable opportunity to
advance his or her knowledge and experience,
and shall ensure that proper credit is given to
each subordinate for work that has been
performed by the subordinate;
13.1.14 a member whose certificate or report is
published without his or her consent, or is
published with words omitted, or is published
in a form that makes it unethical, should take
steps to have the situation corrected;
13.1.15 a member shall not use in any estimate, report,
testimony or other statement in connection
with the promotion of a business enterprise,
any exaggerated, irrelevant or merely laudatory
expression, or any speculative opinion or
forecast, unless it is identified as such;
13.1.16 a member shall, at all times, in his or her
professional activities respect other people's
personal feelings and shall encourage such
behaviour in colleagues and subordinates;
13.1.17 a member shall, at all times in the course of
professional activities, consider a person's
professional merit and standing over and above
other characteristics, such as age, sex, race,
religious belief, sexual preference, cultural or
ethnic background, and shall encourage such
behaviour incolleagues and in subordinates;
13.1.18 a member shall not knowingly do or cause any
action that misrepresents the views of the
RACI or brings it into disrepute.
UK Chief Scientific Adviser
Region: WEOG
Country: UK
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Rigour, respect and responsibility: a universal ethical code for scientists 
This is a public statement of the values and responsibilities of scientists.1 It aims to foster ethical research, to encourage active reflection among scientists on the wider implications and impacts of their work, and to support constructive communication between scientists and the public on complex and challenging issues. 
Individuals and institutions are encouraged to adopt and promote this code. It is meant to capture a small number of broad principles that are shared across disciplinary and institutional boundaries. It is not intended to replace codes of conduct or ethics relating to specific professions or areas of research. 
Rigour, respect and responsibility: a universal ethical code for scientists 
Rigour, honesty and integrity 
      Act with skill and care in all scientific work. Maintain up to date skills and assist their development in others. 
      Take steps to prevent corrupt practices and professional misconduct. Declare conflicts of interest. 
      Be alert to the ways in which research derives from and affects the work of other people, and respect the rights and reputations of others. 
Respect for life, the law and the public good 
      Ensure that your work is lawful and justified. 
      Minimise and justify any adverse effect your work may have on people, animals and the natural environment. 
Responsible communication: listening and informing 
      Seek to discuss the issues that science raises for society. Listen to the aspirations and concerns of others. 
  Do not knowingly mislead, or allow others to be misled, about scientific matters. Present and review scientific evidence, theory or interpretation honestly and accurately.

UK Research Integrity Office
Region: WEOG
Country: UK
Type of Organisation: Government 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

CODE OF PRACTICE
FOR RESEARCH
2.0.2 Organisations and researchers should be guided by these Principles when implementing
and complying with the core Standards described in section 3 and the Recommended
Checklist for Researchers on the inside of the front cover.
2.1 EXCELLENCE: organisations and researchers should strive for excellence when conducting
research and aim to produce and disseminate work of the highest quality. This Code, its
Principles and its Standards are intended to support these goals.
2.2 HONESTY: organisations should work to create and maintain a culture of research that
fosters and supports honesty in research. Researchers should be honest in relation to their
own research and that of others. They should do their utmost to ensure the accuracy of
data and results, acknowledge the contributions of others, and neither engage in
misconduct nor conceal it.
2.3 INTEGRITY: organisations and researchers must comply with all legal and ethical
requirements relevant to their field of study. They should declare any potential or actual
conflicts of interest relating to research and where necessary take steps to resolve them.
2.4 CO-OPERATION: organisations and researchers should promote the open exchange of ideas,
research methods, data and results and their discussion, scrutiny and debate, subject to
any considerations of confidentiality.
2.5 ACCOUNTABILITY: organisations and researchers should recognise that in and through their
work they are ultimately accountable to the general public and should act accordingly.
They should ensure that any research undertaken complies with any agreements, terms
and conditions relating to the project, and allows for proper governance and transparency.
Researchers should follow the requirements and guidance of any professional bodies in
their field of research. Researchers who are members of a regulated profession must
follow the requirements and guidance of the body regulating their profession.
2.6 TRAINING AND SKILLS: organisations should provide training and opportunities for
development for their researchers, and the necessary resources to enable them to
conduct research to the required standards. They should support researchers in identifying
unmet needs for training and development. Researchers should ensure that they have the
necessary skills, training and resources to carry out research, in the proposed research
team or through collaboration with specialists in relevant fields, and report and resolve
any unmet needs identified.
2 Principles
8
2.7 SAFETY: organisations and researchers should ensure the dignity, rights, safety and wellbeing
of all involved in research and avoid unreasonable risk or harm to research subjects,
patients, participants, researchers and others. They should report and address any
concerns relating to the dignity, rights, safety and well-being of those involved in
research. Research should be initiated and continued only if the anticipated benefits
justify the risks involved.
9
3.0.1 Organisations and researchers should comply with the following core Standards, which
should be interpreted in light of the Principles in section 2. Each Standard adopts the
order:
a) organisations and researchers;
b) organisations; and
c) researchers.
3.1
3.1.1 Organisations and researchers must comply with all legal and ethical requirements and
other guidelines that apply to their research. This includes submitting research proposals
for ethics review where appropriate and abiding by the outcome of that review. They
should also ensure that research projects are approved by all applicable bodies, ethical,
regulatory or otherwise.
3.1.2 When conducting, or collaborating in, research in other countries, organisations and
researchers based in the UK should comply with the legal and ethical requirements
existing in the UK and in the countries where the research is conducted. Similarly,
organisations and researchers based abroad who participate in UK-hosted research
projects should comply with the legal and ethical requirements existing in the UK as well
as those of their own country.
3.1.3 Organisations and researchers should ensure that all research projects have sufficient
arrangements for insurance and indemnity prior to the research being conducted.
3.1.4 Organisations should:
a) ensure that good practice in research forms an integral part of their research strategy
or policy;
b) establish clear policies and procedures that cover the Principles of good practice in
research (see section 2) and offer detailed guidance on the Standards set out in this
Code;
c) ensure that these policies and procedures complement and are in accordance with
existing organisational policies, such as those for health and safety, raising concerns
at work, management of finances or of intellectual property, and equality and
diversity;
d) make sure that their researchers are aware of these policies and procedures and that
all research carried out under the auspices of the organisation complies with them;
e) provide training, resources and support to their researchers to ensure that they are
aware of these policies and procedures and are able to comply with them;
Standards for organisations and researchers
General guidance on good practice in research
10
f) encourage their researchers to consider good practice in research as a routine part of
their work; and
g) monitor these measures for suitability and effectiveness and review them where
necessary.
3.1.5 Researchers should:
a) recognise their responsibility to conduct research of high ethical standards;
b) be aware of their organisation’s policies and procedures on good practice in research;
c) make sure that their research complies with these policies and procedures, and seek
guidance from their organisation when necessary;
d) work with their organisation to ensure that they have the necessary training,
resources and support to carry out their research; and
e) suggest to their organisation how guidance on good practice in research might be
developed or revised.
3.2
3.2.1 Organisations and researchers should promote and maintain an environment which
fosters and supports research of high ethical standards, mutual co-operation,
professionalism and the open and honest exchange of ideas. They should foster a culture
where good conduct in research is promoted and inappropriate conduct is identified and
addressed.
3.2.2 Organisations should provide direction and supervision of research and researchers,
setting out clear lines of accountability for the organisation and management of research.
They should support supervisors and researchers in meeting the legal and ethical
requirements of conducting research. Organisations should encourage the career
development of their researchers and provide training and mentoring of new researchers.
They should also offer training and support to those charged with the supervision and
development of other researchers. Organisations should support the principles of the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
3.2.3 Researchers involved in the supervision and development of other researchers should be
aware of their responsibilities and ensure that they have the necessary training, time and
resources to carry out that role, and request support if required.
3.3 Training and mentoring
3.3.1 Organisations should provide training for researchers to enable them to carry out their
duties and develop their knowledge and skills throughout their career. This should include
training in the responsible design, conduct and dissemination of research. They should
support researchers in identifying unmet needs for training and development.
Organisations should provide qualified mentors to assist in the training and career
development of new researchers and also provide career development and educational
opportunities for researchers who are more established in their careers. As in 3.2.2, they
Leadership and supervision
Training and mentoring
11
should support the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers.
3.3.2 Organisations should provide particular support for student researchers. They should
make sure that student researchers understand which standards and organisational
policies and procedures they are expected to comply with.
3.3.3 Researchers should undergo training in order to carry out their duties and to develop their
knowledge and skills throughout their career, repeating training where necessary to
ensure that skills are kept up-to-date. They should identify needs for training when they
arise and report them to their manager or other appropriate person as identified by their
organisation. See also section 3.2.3.
3.4 Research design
3.4.1 When designing research projects, organisations and researchers should ensure that:
a) the proposed research addresses pertinent question(s) and is designed either to add
to existing knowledge about the subject in question or to develop methods for
research into it;
b) the design of the study is appropriate for the question(s) being asked and addresses
the most important potential sources of bias;
c) the design and conduct of the study, including how data will be gathered, analysed
and managed, are set out in detail in a pre-specified research plan or protocol;
d) all necessary skills and experience will be available to carry out the proposed research,
in the proposed research team or through collaboration with specialists in relevant
fields;
e) sufficient resources will be available to carry out the proposed research and that
these resources meet all relevant standards; and
f) any issues relating to the above are resolved as far as possible prior to the start of
the research.
3.4.2 Organisations (where appropriate) and researchers should conduct a risk assessment of
the planned study to determine:
a) whether there are any ethical issues and whether ethics review is required;
b) the potential for risks to the organisation, the research, or the health, safety and wellbeing
of researchers and research participants; and
c) what legal requirements govern the research.
3.4.3 Where the design of a study has been approved by ethics, regulatory or peer review,
organisations and researchers should ensure that any subsequent alterations to the
design are subject to appropriate review to determine that they will not compromise the
integrity of the research or any terms of consent previously given.
3.4.4 Organisations should set up systems to ensure that when there are risks that proposed
research or its results may be misused for purposes that are illegal or harmful, those risks
Research design
12
are identified and addressed. They should make these systems known to researchers and
provide guidance and support to researchers on projects where such risks are identified.
3.4.5 Researchers should try to anticipate any risks that the proposed research might produce
results that could be misused for purposes that are illegal or harmful. Researchers should
report any risks to, and seek guidance from, the appropriate person(s) in their
organisation and take action to minimise those risks.
3.4.6 Researchers should be prepared to make research designs available to peer reviewers and
journal editors when submitting research reports for publication.
3.5 Collaborative working
3.5.1 Organisations and researchers should pay particular attention to projects which include
participants from different countries or where work will be carried out in another country
due to the additional legal and ethical requirements and other guidelines that may apply.
See also sections 3.1.2, 3.7.2 and 3.8.2 .
3.5.2 Organisations should work with partner organisations to ensure the agreement of, and
compliance with, common standards and procedures for the conduct of collaborative
research, including the resolution of any issues or problems that might arise and the
investigation of any allegations of misconduct in research if they occur.
3.5.3 Researchers should be aware of the standards and procedures for the conduct of research
followed by any organisations involved in collaborative research that they are
undertaking. They should also be aware of any contractual requirements involving partner
organisations, seeking guidance and assistance where necessary and reporting any
concerns or irregularities to the appropriate person(s) as soon as they become aware of
them.
3.5.4 Researchers should try to anticipate any issues that might arise as a result of working
collaboratively and agree jointly in advance how they might be addressed,
communicating any decisions to all members of the research team. In particular,
agreement should be sought on the specific roles of the researchers involved in the
project and on issues relating to intellectual property, publication, and the attribution of
authorship, recognising that, subject to legal and ethical requirements, roles and
contributions may change during the time span of the research.
3.6
3.6.1 Organisations and researchers must recognise that conflicts of interest (i.e. personal or
institutional considerations, including but not limited to financial matters) can
inappropriately affect research. Conflicts of interest must be identified, declared and
addressed in order to avoid poor practice in research or potential misconduct.
3.6.2 When addressing a conflict of interest, it must be decided whether it is of a type and
severity that poses a risk of fatally compromising the validity or integrity of the research,
in which case researchers and organisations should not proceed with the research, or
whether it can be adequately addressed through declarations and/or special safeguards
relating to the conduct and reporting of the research.
Conflicts of interest
Collaborative working
13
3.6.3 Organisations should have a clearly-written and accessible policy for addressing conflicts
of interest, including guidance for researchers on how to identify, declare and address
conflicts of interest, and should disseminate and explain the policy to researchers.
Organisations should ensure that researchers understand the importance of recognising,
disclosing and addressing conflicts of interest in the conduct and reporting of research.
3.6.4 Organisations should comply with the requirements of their policy for addressing
conflicts of interest, as well as any external requirements relating to conflicts of interest,
such as those of funding bodies. Heads of organisations and other senior staff should be
aware of potential or actual conflicts of interest at the institutional level and disclose
them when they arise so that they can be addressed.
3.6.5 Researchers should comply with their organisation’s policy for addressing conflicts of
interest, as well as any external requirements relating to conflicts of interest, such as
those of funding bodies. This should include declaring any potential or actual conflicts of
interest relating to their research to: their manager or other appropriate person as
identified by their organisation; any ethics committee which reviews their research; and
when reporting their findings at meetings or in publications. Conflicts of interest should
be disclosed as soon as researchers become aware of them.
3.6.6 Researchers should agree to abide by any direction given by their organisation or any
relevant ethics committee in relation to a conflict of interest.
3.7
3.7.1 Organisations and researchers should make sure that any research involving human
participants, human material or personal data complies with all legal and ethical
requirements and other applicable guidelines. Appropriate care should be taken when
research projects involve: vulnerable groups, such as the very old, children or those with
mental illness; and covert studies or other forms of research which do not involve full
disclosure to participants. The dignity, rights, safety and well-being of participants must
be the primary consideration in any research study. Research should be initiated and
continued only if the anticipated benefits justify the risks involved.
3.7.2 When conducting, or collaborating in, research in other countries, organisations and
researchers based in the UK should comply with the legal and ethical requirements
existing in the UK and in the countries where the research is conducted. Similarly,
organisations and researchers based abroad who participate in UK-hosted research
projects should comply with the legal and ethical requirements existing in the UK as well
as those of their own country.
3.7.3 Organisations and researchers should ensure the confidentiality and security of: personal
data relating to human participants in research; and human material involved in research
projects.
3.7.4 Organisations and researchers working with, for, or under the auspices of, any of the UK
Departments of Health and/or the National Health Service must adhere to all relevant
guidelines, for example the Department of Health’s Research Governance Framework for
Health and Social Care and the National Research Ethics Service’s Guidance for Applicants.
Research involving human participants,
human material or personal data
14
Organisations and researchers involved in clinical trials on medicinal products for human
use should comply with the principles of Good Clinical (Research) Practice.
3.7.5 Organisations should set up systems to ensure appropriate ethical, regulatory and peer
review of research projects involving human participants, human material or personal
data. The systems should include mechanisms to ensure that such research projects have
been approved by all applicable bodies, ethical, regulatory or otherwise.
3.7.6 Organisations should also set up systems to ensure that appropriate procedures for
obtaining informed consent are established and observed in projects involving human
participants, having particular regard to the needs and capacity of the subjects involved.
3.7.7 Organisations should set up systems to ensure the confidentiality and security of:
personal data relating to human participants in research; and human material involved in
research projects.
3.7.8 Organisations should make sure that their researchers are aware of all of the above
systems and have access to all relevant guidance and legal and ethical frameworks.
3.7.9 Researchers should submit research projects involving human participants, human
material or personal data for review by all relevant ethics committees and abide by the
outcome of those reviews. They should also ensure that such research projects have been
approved by all applicable bodies, ethical, regulatory or otherwise.
3.7.10 Researchers on projects involving human subjects must satisfy themselves that
participants are enabled, by the provision of adequate accurate information in an
appropriate form through suitable procedures, to give informed consent, having particular
regard to the needs and capacities of vulnerable groups, such as the very old, children and
those with mental illness.
3.7.11 Researchers should inform research participants that data gathered during the course of
research may be disseminated not only in a report but also in different forms for
academic or other subsequent publications and meetings, albeit not in an identifiable
form, unless previously agreed to, and subject to limitations imposed by legislation or any
applicable bodies, ethical, regulatory or otherwise.
3.7.12 Researchers who are members of a regulated profession must ensure that research
involving human participants, human material or personal data complies with any
standards set by the body regulating their profession.
3.7.13 Researchers have a duty to publish the findings of all clinical research involving human
participants. In addition, it is government policy to promote public access to information
about any research and research findings affecting health and social care, including the
principle that trials should appear on public registers. In this context “trials” means all
comparative studies of health interventions, not just ones conducted in a clinical setting.
3.7.14 If researchers consider that human participants in research are subject to unreasonable
risk or harm, they must report their concerns to their manager, or other appropriate
person as identified by their organisation, and, where required, to the appropriate
regulatory authority. Similarly, concerns relating to the improper and/or unlicensed use or
storage of human material, or the improper use or storage of personal data, should be
reported.
15
3.8
3.8.1 Organisations and researchers should make sure that research involving animals adheres
to all legal and ethical requirements and other applicable guidelines. They should consider
the opportunities for reduction, replacement and refinement of involving animals in
research projects and should refer to the relevant guidance.
3.8.2 When conducting, or collaborating in, research in other countries, organisations and
researchers based in the UK should comply with the legal and ethical requirements
existing in the UK and in the countries where the research is conducted. Similarly,
organisations and researchers based abroad who participate in UK-hosted research
projects should comply with the legal and ethical requirements existing in the UK as well
as those of their own country.
3.8.3 Organisations should set up systems to ensure the ethical, regulatory and peer review of
research projects involving animals. The systems should include mechanisms to make sure
that such research projects have been approved by all applicable bodies, ethical,
regulatory or otherwise.
3.8.4 Organisations should make sure that their researchers are aware of the above systems
and have access to all relevant guidance and legal and ethical frameworks.
3.8.5 Researchers should submit research projects involving animals for review by all relevant
ethics committees and abide by the outcome of that review. They should also ensure that
such research projects have been approved by all applicable bodies, ethical, regulatory or
otherwise.
3.8.6 If researchers consider that animals involved in research are subject to unreasonable risk
or harm, they must report their concerns to their manager or other appropriate person as
identified by their organisation, and, where required, to the appropriate regulatory
authority.
3.9
3.9.1 Organisations and researchers should ensure that all research carried out under their
auspices, or for which they are responsible, fulfils all requirements of health and safety
legislation and good practice. They should bear in mind that certain types of research, for
example social research in a conflict zone, can present particular issues of health and
safety. They should ensure that all research which involves potentially hazardous or
harmful material or which might cause harm to the environment complies with all legal
requirements and other applicable guidelines.
3.9.2 Organisations should set up systems to ensure that such research undergoes all forms of
appropriate review in accordance with the organisation’s policy on health and safety.
3.9.3 Researchers should submit such research for all forms of appropriate review and abide by
the outcome of that review.
Health and safety
Research involving animals
16
3.10
3.10.1 Organisations and researchers should ensure that any contracts or agreements relating to
research include provision for ownership and use of intellectual property. Intellectual
property includes, but is not limited to: research data and other findings of research;
ideas, processes, software, hardware, apparatus and equipment; substances and materials;
and artistic and literary works, including academic and scientific publications.
3.10.2 Organisations and researchers should not give prior disclosure of research or the findings
of research when this might invalidate any commercial property rights that could result.
Organisations and researchers should recognise, however, that the presumption should be
that any intellectual property discovered or developed using public or charitable funds
should be disseminated in order to have a beneficial effect on society at large. That
presumption may be rebutted where there is an express restriction placed on any such
dissemination. Any delay in publication and dissemination pending protection of
intellectual property should be kept to a minimum.
3.10.3 Organisations and researchers should comply with any additional conditions relating to
intellectual property required by funding bodies.
3.10.4 Organisations should clearly state when their standard guidance might not apply; for
example, a university would normally waive copyright of articles prepared for publication
in journals or books.
3.10.5 Researchers should try to anticipate any issues that might arise relating to intellectual
property at the earliest opportunity and agree jointly in advance how they might be
addressed, communicating any decisions to all members of the research team.
3.11
3.11.1 Organisations and researchers should ensure that the terms and conditions of any grant or
contract related to the research are adhered to.
3.11.2 Organisations should issue guidelines regarding the purchasing or procurement of
materials, equipment or other resources for research and the hiring of staff for research
projects. These guidelines should include statements on the ownership of resources and
the rights of researchers to use them. Organisations should also set up procedures for the
monitoring and audit of finances relating to research projects.
3.11.3 Researchers should comply with organisational guidelines regarding the use and
management of finances relating to research projects. They should co-operate with any
monitoring and audit of finances relating to research projects and report any concerns or
irregularities to the appropriate person(s) as soon as they become aware of them.
3.12
3.12.1 Organisations and researchers should comply with all legal, ethical, funding body and
organisational requirements for the collection, use and storage of data, especially personal
data, where particular attention should be paid to the requirements of data protection
Collection and retention of data
Finance
Intellectual property
17
legislation. They should also maintain confidentiality where undertakings have been made
to third parties or to protect intellectual property rights. Organisations and researchers
should ensure that research data relating to publications is available for discussion with
other researchers, subject to any existing agreements on confidentiality.
3.12.2 Data should be kept intact for any legally specified period and otherwise for three years
at least, subject to any legal, ethical or other requirements, from the end of the project. It
should be kept in a form that would enable retrieval by a third party, subject to
limitations imposed by legislation and general principles of confidentiality.
3.12.3 Organisations and researchers should comply with any subject-specific requirements for
the retention of data; for example, certain disciplines, such as health and biomedicine,
may require research data to be retained for a considerably longer period.
3.12.4 If research data is to be deleted or destroyed, either because its agreed period of
retention has expired or for legal or ethical reasons, it should be done so in accordance
with all legal, ethical, research funder and organisational requirements and with particular
concern for confidentiality and security.
3.12.5 Organisations should have in place procedures, resources (including physical space) and
administrative support to assist researchers in the accurate and efficient collection of
data and its storage in a secure and accessible form.
3.12.6 Researchers should consider how data will be gathered, analysed and managed, and how
and in what form relevant data will eventually be made available to others, at an early
stage of the design of the project.
3.12.7 Researchers should collect data accurately, efficiently and according to the agreed design
of the research project, and ensure that it is stored in a secure and accessible form.
3.13
3.13.1 Organisations and researchers should ensure that research projects comply with any
monitoring and audit requirements. They should make sure that researchers charged with
carrying out such monitoring and audits have sufficient training, resources and support to
fulfil the requirements of the role.
3.13.2 Organisations should monitor and audit research projects to ensure that they are being
carried out in accordance with good practice, legal and ethical requirements, and any
other guidelines, adopting a risk-based and proportional approach.
3.13.3 Researchers should consider any requirements for monitoring and audit at an early stage
in the design of a project.
3.13.4 Researchers should co-operate with the monitoring and audit of their research projects
by applicable bodies and undertake such when required. They should co-operate with any
outcomes of the monitoring and audit of their research projects. If they become aware of
a need for monitoring and audit where it is not already scheduled, they should report
that need to the appropriate person(s).
Monitoring and audit
18
3.14
3.14.1 Organisations and researchers should be aware that peer review is an important part of good
practice in: the publication and dissemination of research and research findings; the
assessment of applications for research grants; and in the ethics review of research projects.
3.14.2 Organisations should encourage researchers to act as peer reviewers for meetings, journals
and other publications, grant applications and ethics review of research proposals, and
support those who do so. They should recognise the obligations of peer reviewers to be
thorough and objective in their work and to maintain confidentiality, and should not put
pressure, directly or indirectly, on peer reviewers to breach these obligations.
3.14.3 Researchers who carry out peer review should do so to the highest standards of
thoroughness and objectivity. They should follow the guidelines for peer review of any
organisation for which they carry out such work.
3.14.4 Researchers should maintain confidentiality and not retain or copy any material under
review without the express written permission of the organisation which requested the
review. They should not make use of research designs or research findings from a paper
under review without the express permission of the author(s) and should not allow others
to do so. Researchers acting as peer reviewers must declare any relevant conflicts of
interest.
3.14.5 While carrying out peer review, researchers may become aware of possible misconduct,
such as plagiarism, fabrication or falsification, or have ethical concerns about the design
or conduct of the research. In such cases they should inform, in confidence, an
appropriate representative of the organisation which requested the review, such as the
editor of the relevant journal or chair of the relevant grants or ethics committee.
3.15
3.15.1 Organisations and researchers should accept their duty to publish and disseminate
research in a manner that reports the research and all the findings of the research
accurately and without selection that could be misleading.
3.15.2 Organisations should ensure that sponsors and funders of research: respect the duty of
researchers to publish their research and the findings of their research; do not discourage
or suppress appropriate publication or dissemination; and do not attempt to influence the
presentation or interpretation of findings inappropriately.
3.15.3 Organisations should provide training and support to guide researchers in the publication
and dissemination of research and the findings of research that involves: confidential or
proprietary information; issues relating to patents or intellectual property; findings with
serious implications for public health; contractual or other legal obligations; and/or
interest from the media or the general public.
3.15.4 Researchers should address issues relating to publication and authorship, especially the
roles of all collaborators and contributors, at an early stage of the design of a project,
recognising that, subject to legal and ethical requirements, roles and contributions may
change during the time span of the research. Decisions on publication and authorship
should be agreed jointly and communicated to all members of the research team.
Publication and authorship
Peer review
19
3.15.5 Authorship should be restricted to those contributors and collaborators who have made a
significant intellectual or practical contribution to the work. No person who fulfils the
criteria for authorship should be excluded from the submitted work. Authorship should
not be allocated to honorary or “guest” authors (i.e. those that do not fulfil criteria of
authorship). Researchers should be aware that anyone listed as an author of any work
should be prepared to take public responsibility for that work and ensure its accuracy, and
be able to identify their contribution to it.
3.15.6 Researchers should list the work of all contributors who do not meet the criteria for
authorship in an acknowledgements section. All funders and sponsors of research should
be clearly acknowledged and any competing interests listed.
3.15.7 Researchers must clearly acknowledge all sources used in their research and seek
permission from any individuals if a significant amount of their work has been used in the
publication.
3.15.8 Researchers must adhere to any conditions set by funding or other bodies regarding the
publication of their research and its findings in open access repositories within a set
period.
3.15.9 Researchers should declare any potential or actual conflicts of interest in relation to their
research when reporting their findings at meetings or in publications.
3.15.10 Researchers should be aware that submitting research reports to more than one potential
publisher at any given time (i.e. duplicate submission) or publishing findings in more than
one publication without disclosure and appropriate acknowledgement of any previous
publications (i.e. duplicate publication) is unacceptable.
3.15.11 Researchers who are discouraged from publishing and disseminating their research or its
findings, or subjected to attempts to influence the presentation or interpretation of
findings inappropriately, should discuss this with the appropriate person(s) in their
organisation so that the matter can be resolved.
3.16
3.16.1 Organisations should define what they consider to be misconduct in research and make it
known to researchers. UKRIO defines misconduct in research as including, but not limited to:
a) Fabrication;
b) Falsification;
c) Misrepresentation of data and/or interests and/or involvement;
d) Plagiarism; and
e) Failures to follow accepted procedures or to exercise due care in carrying out
responsibilities for:
i) avoiding unreasonable risk or harm to:
  humans;
  animals used in research; and
  the environment; and
Misconduct in research
20
ii) the proper handling of privileged or private information on individuals collected
during the research.
3.16.2 Organisations should establish and publicise a procedure to investigate allegations of
misconduct in research (as in section 3.1.4) and ensure that any such allegations are
investigated thoroughly and fairly and in a timely manner. The UKRIO Procedure for the
Investigation of Misconduct in Research outlines a standard process for investigating
alleged misconduct that is thorough and fair to all parties.
3.16.3 Organisations should identify and make known one or more members of staff who have
responsibility for investigating allegations of misconduct in research and whom
researchers and external organisations, such as journals, can contact with any concerns
about the conduct of research. They should make sure that staff who investigate
allegations have the necessary training, resources and support to fulfil the requirements
of the role.
3.16.4 Organisations should make it clear to researchers that any misconduct in research is
unacceptable and should be reported; that researchers who are found to have committed
misconduct in research will be subject to disciplinary proceedings; and that where
researchers are members of a regulated profession, cases of serious misconduct in
research will be referred to the body regulating their profession. They should also make it
clear that researchers who are found not to have committed misconduct will be
supported and appropriate steps taken to restore their reputation and that of any
relevant research project(s).
3.16.5 Organisations should support those who raise concerns about the conduct of research in
good faith and not penalise them. This support should be in accordance with the
organisation’s policy on raising concerns or “whistle blowing”.
3.16.6 Researchers should know what constitutes misconduct in research and report any
suspected misconduct through the relevant procedure of the organisation as soon as they
become aware of it. They should recognise that good practice in research includes
reporting concerns about the conduct of research and should co-operate with any
investigation of misconduct in research when requested. Researchers should work with
their institution to support those who raise concerns in good faith about the conduct of
research and those who have been exonerated of suspected misconduct.
UN Environment Programme
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: International Organisation 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

CODE OF ETHICS ON THE INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN CHEMICALS



PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS




I. OBJECTIVE

1.  The objective of this code is to set forth principles and guidance for private sector parties, governing standards of conduct in the production and management of chemicals in international trade, taking into account their entire life cycle, with the purpose of reducing risks to human health and the environment which might be posed by such chemicals.

 


II. DEFINITIONS 

2.  For purposes of the code:

    (a) "Banned chemical" means a chemical which has, for health or environmental reasons, been prohibited for all uses by final governmental regulatory action;

    (b) "Severely restricted chemical" means a chemical for which , for health or environmental reasons, virtually all uses have been prohibited nationally by final government regulatory action, but for which certain specific uses remain authorized;  

    (c) "Hazardous chemical" means a chemical which represents a threat to human or animal health or to the environment.

    (d) "Private sector parties" means industry, workers and their representatives, environmental and consumer groups and other non-governmental organizations, and the public.

    (e) "Industry" means all segments involved in production and management of chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle, including producers, formulators, importers and exporters, traders, and transporters.  

    (f) "International trade in chemicals" means export or import of chemicals. 

    (g) "Export" and "import" mean, in their respective connotations, the movement of a chemical from one State to another State, but exclude mere transit operations.

    (h) "Management" means the handling, supply transport, storage, treatment, application or other use of a chemical subsequent to its initial manufacture or formulation.


    (i) "Prior informed consent" (PIC) refers to the principle that international shipment of a chemical that is banned or severely restricted in order to protect human health and the environment should not proceed without the agreement, where such agreement exists, or contrary to the decision of, the designated national authority in the importing country.  For the purpose of this code, "designated national authority" means a national government authority designated for purposes of information exchange and the prior informed consent procedure being carried out by UNEP and FAO.

    (j) "Prior informed consent procedure" (PIC procedure) means the procedure for formally obtaining and disseminating the decisions of importing countries as to whether they wish to receive future shipments of chemicals which have been banned or severely restricted, being carried out by UNEP and FAO.   

    (k) "PIC decision" means a decision by a importing country of a chemical subject to the PIC procedure with respect to the future import of chemicals.


    III. EXEMPTIONS  

3.  The code should not apply to:

    (a) Pharmaceuticals, including narcotics, drugs and psychotropic substances;

    (b) Radioactive materials;

    (c) Chemicals imported for the purpose of research or analysis in quantities not likely to affect the environment or human health;

    (d) Chemicals imported as personal or household effects, in quantities reasonable for these uses;

    (e) Food additives.

 


IV. THE COMMITMENT TO IMPROVED HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION RELATED TO THE INTERNATIONAL TRADE
IN CHEMICALS


4.  Private sector parties involved in the international trade in chemicals should make a commitment to undertake self-regulatory measures to meet the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance contained in Part II below in order to ensure the safe production and management of chemicals in domestic and international trade, taking into account their entire life cycle.

5.  Private sector parties should recognize in the commitment their shared responsibility, along with the governments of chemical exporting and importing countries, for the protection of human health and the environment.  In particular, business and industry should recognize their responsibility for fully participating in the implementation and evaluation of activities related to Agenda 21 .

6.  The private sector parties that have already entered into the commitment under "Responsible Care" or a similar instrument consistent with this code, such as the FAO Code of Conduct, are encouraged to make a declaration, expressing that existing commitments are consistent with this code.  The parties that have not made commitment under "Responsible Care" or a similar instrument should demonstrate their commitment by making an appropriate declaration in a written statement and publish such declaration.

7.  Private sector parties making such written declaration should notify UNEP of their respective decisions to enter into commitment to meet the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance contained in the code.

8.  The parties that have made such written declaration under paragraph 5 and entered into voluntary commitment under the code should initiate necessary action to meet the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance below within 180 days after the commitment is notified to UNEP.

9.  The commitment by the private sector parties should include the following elements:

    (a) Increase chemical safety and enhance the sound production and management of chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle, in all countries by providing government authorities and relevant private sector parties with relevant information on chemicals in domestic and international trade. 

    (b) Comply with the PIC procedure being carried out by UNEP and FAO to the extent applicable to private sector parties. 

10. Enterprises/companies involved in the production or management of chemicals in domestic and international trade, taking into account their entire life cycle, should demonstrate this commitment at all levels of their enterprises/companies, starting with the highest level of management.  This commitment should be communicated throughout the enterprises/companies.
 
PART II. GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND
 GUIDANCE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES


I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES

11.  Having agreed to take appropriate actions to protect human health and the environment from adverse effects from the production and management of chemicals in international trade, taking into account their entire life cycle, and to promote chemical safety, private sector parties should:

    (a) Act in accordance with the guidance set out in this code, and develop the means for applying the guidance in a manner appropriate to local circumstances;

    (b) Allocate the resources necessary for the application of the guidance to their own activities;
 
    (c) Enhance co-operation among private sector parties as well as with government agencies and relevant international organizations for the promotion the code;

    (d) Cooperate with local community to address problems related to chemicals in international trade and solving such problems, including the provision of relevant information.

12. Enterprises/companies involved in the international trade in chemicals, such as producers, formulators, transporters, traders including exporters and importers, should:

    (a) Develop management systems to enable the proper production and  management of chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle;

    (b) To the extent practicable, evaluate and do business with suppliers, contract manufacturers, transporters, traders and professional users who meet applicable safety, health and environmental criteria.

13. Private sector parties should promote the application of the guidance set out in the code by:

    (a) Establishing the means for sharing experience with various private sector parties, including those parties in different countries or regions, and, as appropriate, with relevant government authorities, concerning measures taken in accordance with the code;
 
    (b) Offering assistance to others who produce and manage chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle. 

14. Private sector parties should work with government authorities responsible for health and environmental protection from harmful effect of chemicals in international trade, including customs offices, in accordance with the principles and guidance in the code.

15. Private sector parties should take initiatives to assist in the implementation of internationally agreed instruments related to chemicals in international trade, in particular the prior informed consent procedure being carried out by UNEP and FAO, as well as those instruments related to chemical accident prevention, preparedness and response. 

16. Private sector parties, in co-operation with Governments and relevant international organizations, should establish a procedure for reviewing and revising the code, as appropriate.




II. GUIDANCE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES

17. The following guidance, set out in seven categories, represent the standards of conduct which should be undertaken in order to fulfil the commitment and general principles set out above.  Private sector parties should apply the paragraphs relevant to them, in a way which will be effective under their particular circumstances. 



A. Reducing Risks
    
18. Chemical producers and formulators should:

    (a) Make every reasonable effort, to the extent practicable, to reduce risks by:

        (i) Introducing appropriate procedures to minimize adverse health and environmental effects from chemicals being manufactured and managed, taking into account their entire life cycle, under both normal operating conditions as well as emergency situations.
 
        (ii)    Developing safer packaging, and using clear and concise labelling, taking into account existing international scheme with respect to packaging and labelling.

        (iii)   Take initiatives, to the extent possible, in following chemicals to the ultimate consumer, keeping track of any problems arising in actual use of the chemicals, as a basis for changes in labelling, directions and packaging.

    (b) When safe manufacture and management of a chemical, taking into account its entire life cycle, does not seem possible, voluntarily take corrective action and help find solutions to difficulties.

    (c) Halt manufacturing and trade, and recall products when appropriate due to the unacceptable risks associated with the product. 

19. Chemical producers, formulators and traders should:

    (a) Co-operate with relevant government authorities of importing countries and comply with their PIC decisions, recognizing that this might be dependent upon the governments of exporting countries fulfilling their responsibility to transmit to their industry the PIC decisions of importing countries under the PIC procedure . 

    (b) Co-operate with government authorities in order to ensure implementation of the export notification procedures for banned or severely restricted chemicals, where applicable. 
 


20. Industry should:

    (a) Whenever possible, endeavour to reduce the quantity of hazardous chemicals used.

    (b) Co-operate with government authorities in activities related to chemical accident prevention, preparedness and response, including the development of emergency preparedness plans and support international activities in this area. 

    (c) In co operation with the Government, ensure safe management and disposal of chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle. 

21. Private sector parties should ensure that transfer of know-how for the production of chemicals be subject to the standards of conduct set out in the code.



B. Testing and Assessment

22. Chemical producers and formulators should:

    (a) As regards new chemicals, produce and commercialize only the chemicals that are known to have gone through a process of testing and assessment that is conducted in accordance with national laws and regulations or internationally accepted procedures and updated where appropriate, and where necessary, taking into account the specific conditions of intended use.  This testing and assessment should provide the necessary basis for an evaluation of the risks of the chemical in order to allow appropriate actions to protect human health and the environment. 

    (b) Provide summaries of the reports of such testing and assessment to government authorities and, upon request, provide these authorities with the full reports in accordance with applicable national laws and regulations, where such laws and regulations have been in force.

    (c) Identify reasonably foreseeable uses and misuses of chemicals and, in order to do so, seek feedback from occupational users on use and misuse of chemicals.  To the extent appropriate, undertake additional testing and revision of assessment taking into account the information on uses and misuses of chemicals.

    (d) Ensure that proposed uses, labelling, information and advertising reflect the results of the testing and assessment.

    (e) Provide, as appropriate, chemical producers and formulators in other countries or government authorities with advice and assistance related to testing and assessment, including assistance in the interpretation and evaluation of data.

    (f) Ensure that contract manufacturers are kept informed of new significant health, safe and environmental data on chemicals in international trade.

 


C. Quality Assurance

23. Chemical producers and formulators should:

    (a) Maintain quality assurance procedures to ensure that chemicals comply with relevant human health and environmental standards and specifications, including non-exploitation of products which are out of date and, to this end, co-operate with government authorities, as appropriate.

    (b) Ensure, to the extent possible, that chemicals manufactured or formulated by a subsidiary company or a contract manufacturer meets appropriate human health and environmental requirements and standards which are consistent with the requirements of the country of manufacture as well as those of the parent or contracting company.

24. Chemical producers, formulator and traders should ensure that the quality of a chemical complies with the information in the attached label and with the literature and specifications published by a chemical's manufacturer.



D. Classification, Packaging and Labelling
    
25. Chemical producers, formulators and traders should:

    (a) Ensure that:

        (i) chemicals are labelled;

        (ii)    labels include appropriate recommendations, instructions, warnings, precautions and first aid information;

        (iii)   labels show appropriate hazard classifications;

        (iv)    labels provide appropriate lot or batch information; 

        (v) labels are in a format appropriate for traders, transporters and occupational users with respect to, for example the language used and the use of symbols and pictograms. 

    (b) Ensure that classification, packaging and labelling of chemicals conform to applicable international rules, regulations and guidelines, such as the FAO Guidelines, including, for example those dealing with transportation.  Where no such international rules, regulations or guidelines are available, an appropriate national or regional system for classification, packaging and labelling should be applied.  Labelling requirements should cover: 

        (i) information to be given in the label;

        (ii)    legibility, durability and size of the label;

        (iii)   uniformity of labels and symbols, including colours.

26. Traders and transporters should ensure that chemicals are handled and transported safely in accordance with the information in the labels attached to the packages.



E. Provision of Information

27. Chemical producers and formulators should:
    
    (a) Provide occupational users, traders, transporters and contract manufacturers with appropriate information and guidance, which should be kept up-dated, to enable proper development, manufacture and management of all chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle.  Safety data sheets (or material safety data sheets) should be prepared for hazardous chemicals and be provided to occupational users, traders, and contract manufacturers to the extent that this could improve safety in the handling and use of the chemicals.

    (b) Provide information and instructions in a form and language which will ensure safe and effective use of a chemical.  

    (c) Ensure consistency of all safety information provided on a given chemicals. 

    (d) Provide government authorities and consumers with relevant information on:

        (i) health and environmental hazards which might be posed by chemicals in international trade;

        (ii)    recommended protective measures;

        (iii)   first aid measures.

        In providing such information, claims for protection of confidential and proprietary information should not compromise the overriding objective of protecting health and the environment and promoting safety.

    (e) Provide the information on safe handling of chemicals when they are outdated or expired.

28. Industry should:

    (a) Make reasonable efforts to ensure that the information relevant to health and environmental protection from harmful effects of chemicals reaches the occupational users or traders in importing countries.  The information should be included in the labels attached to the packages whenever possible.  

    (b) Co-operate with governments and competent international organizations for the purpose of information exchange, including the provision of information, upon request, to a government authority in an importing country concerning banned or severely restricted chemicals and alternatives to such chemicals.
 
    (c) Communicate on health, safety and environmental matters to government authorities and other interested parties.  In this regard, industry should establish and implement policies to ensure openness in health, safety and environmental information in a manner appropriate to local circumstances.

    (d) Assist UNEP to establish databases to be used by designated national authorities for registration and monitoring of chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle, and for attention to emergencies.
 


F. Education and Training

29. For the purpose of preventing harmful effects of chemicals in international trade to health and the environment, industry should continue to:

    (a) Educate and train employees at all levels on the proper management of chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle.

    (b) Provide employees with safety data sheets or similar relevant information.

    (c) Educate and train relevant employees so that they can advise occupational users and traders on the proper management of chemicals, taking into account their entire life cycle.  

    (d) Disseminate educational information to, inter alia, chemical handlers and consumers, as well as other interested parties such as medical personnel and customs officials, through a coordinated effort of Governments, international organizations and industry.  
    
    (e) Provide support for training of occupational users and government authorities in importing countries, including training for emergency responses.



G. Advertising and Marketing

30. Recognizing difference in countries, and with a view to providing accurate information of chemicals to ultimate consumers, such as occupational users, industry should:

    (a) Ensure that advertising is consistent with the standards of conduct set out in the code.  Statements used in advertising should be capable of technical substantiation.  Advertising should not be likely to mislead any buyer, in particular with regard to safety or suitability of use.  Advertisements should not encourage uses inconsistent with approved labels or at variance with generally-accepted recommendations.  Advertising should draw attention to warnings and should encourage careful reading of labels. 

    (b) Encourage importing enterprises/companies and relevant trade associations to cooperate in order to achieve fair and safe marketing and trade practices and to help government authorities to stamp out malpractice. 
 

PART III. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP

31. Industry, non-governmental organizations, workers and consumers unions, and other relevant public interest groups, in cooperation with Governments and international organizations, should:

    (a) Take active role to monitor activities of industry and other private sector parties involved in the international trade in chemicals as to whether those activities are in compliance with the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance above.

    (b) Report the results of the monitoring to government authorities and competent international organizations, such as UNEP, with a view to:

        (i) Improving performance of industry and other private sector parties involved in the international trade in chemicals;

        (ii)    Assisting Governments to adopt or amend national laws, regulations and administrative measures governing activities in the international trade in chemicals.

        (iii)   Co-operating with Governments and international organizations to develop relevant international instruments.

    (c) Communicate on health, safety and environmental matters related to chemicals in international trade with other interested parties.

32. Industry is encouraged to cooperate with UNEP and non-governmental organizations in the implementation and monitoring of the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance above.

33. Industry should ensure that workers and others are not punished for monitoring and reporting its performance to Governments, international organizations and relevant private sector parties.
    
34. Private sector parties are encouraged to enter into voluntary agreements with Governments for the application of the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance above.

35. Private sector parties, in cooperation with Governments and international organizations such as UNEP, should promote the code to extend the parties committed to apply the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance above.

36. Private sector parties should develop procedures for self-evaluation to assess performance in undertaking self-regulatory measures to meet the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance above.

37. Private sector parties, in cooperation with Governments and international organizations, should periodically monitor compliance, review and revise, as appropriate, the code at international fora which will be convened by UNEP subject to the availability of resources. 

38. UNEP will, within available resources:

    (a) maintain, up-date and publish a list of those private sector parties that have entered into commitment under the code;

    (b) compile and publish reports on progress in the application of the standards of conduct set out in the principles and guidance above.
UNODA
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: International Organisation 
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS
Personnel concerned with the categories mentioned in Article 3 above and dealing with the precursor
chemicals are required to maintain statutory records as prescribed under their national legislation and
follow the minimum procedures recommended below relating to the following:
1) Production
2) Storage and handling
3) Dispatch
4) Transportation
5) Marketing
6) Import/Export
7) Financial Transactions
The records so maintained are required to be preserved for a minimum period of TWO years.
PRODUCTION
The Production department should maintain and keep a daily record, for each precursor manufactured
or captively used, which must include the following information:
Voluntary Code of Conduct (VCC) for Trade and Industry
1. Opening stock
2. Amounts produced/manufactured
3. Amounts sold/dispatched
4. Amounts imported
5. Amounts exported
6. Amounts lost, destroyed or reduced by effects such as shrinkage and other causes such as
accidents, pilferage, manufacturing losses, etc.,
7. Amounts consumed internally
8. Closing stock
The quantity of the chemical must be recorded in prescribed weights and measures such as kilograms,
liters etc.
The said record must be duly authenticated on a daily basis by the Head/Authorized Officer of the
company. The company must declare the raw materials used, process flow chart and the input/output
ratio relating to the manufacture of the precursor chemical. Similar declaration must be made by the
captive consumers/actual users in relation to the precursor chemicals used by them. This may be done
once in a year at the beginning of the fiscal year.
In the absence of laid down procedures for maintenance of records in a country, statutory records
maintained under any other law/rule of the country giving all the above details may also be accepted as
official record.
STORAGE AND HANDLING
The Precursor chemicals are required to be stored in secured containers/tanks in such a manner that
physical checks and verification of the stock can be undertaken easily.
The tanks/containers must be labeled in bold letters giving details of the precursor chemicals stored in
it.
Daily stock levels must be monitored internally by the Head/Authorized Officer of the company
(including recording the temperature wherever necessary) and must be tallied with the statutory records
maintained for the same.
The handling of the precursor chemicals must be restricted to specific persons deployed for the purpose
to ensure that there is no pilferage.
Records must be maintained relating to storage, issue, receipt and such records are required to be audited
internally at regular intervals.
Any loss of the substance in handling or due to environmental conditions such as temperature variations
etc. must be recorded and reported to statutory authorities within the specified time frame.
ARTICLE - 6

In case of packed material, the substance must be packed in secured packages/containers serially
numbered along with details of name of manufacturer, address, gross weight, tare weight and net
weight. The packages/containers must be printed or labeled in bold letters indicating the substance
contained in them. In cases of substances containing mixture or preparations of the precursor
chemicals, the break up of the net weight of the precursor chemical and other salts along with the
percentage of the chemical in the mixture must be mentioned separately.
The delivery documents must be prepared in quadruplicate. The original and duplicate copies are for the
consignee, who will acknowledge on the duplicate copy and send it to the consignor within a specified
time frame. The triplicate copy is for the transporter and the quadruplicate copy is for the record of the
consignor.
The delivery must be made only at the address of the consignee or their assigned place of delivery
mentioned in the delivery documents and not to any other place.
In addition to the delivery documents, statutory documents relating to the ownership and registration of
the vehicle, containing details of the gross, tare and net weight of the vehicle, certification about its road
worthiness, date of calibration, if any etc. must accompany the consignment.
The driving license and photograph of the driver of the vehicle must be scrutinized by the
manufacturer/ Transport Company
Copies of the driving license, documents relating to the transporting vehicle must be obtained by the
company engaging the transporter and kept as record to assist in future investigations.
Any loss of the substance during transportation like leakage due to wear and tear, accidents, etc., must be
reported to the Competent Regulatory Authority immediately or to the nearest police station or any
other statutory authority notified by the CNA of the country.
The above conditions must be followed, even when the company itself is carrying out the
transportation.
MARKETING
The company while marketing the precursor chemicals, must follow the “KNOW YOUR
CUSTOMER” (KYC) principle, obtain the following minimum information and verify it before
delivery of the first consignment:
a. Details of the name, address, contact telephone and facsimile
numbers, email address of the purchaser
b. The intended use and place of consumption by obtaining an
End Use Certificate.
c. Details of the statutory registration of the purchasing company
with relevant authorities under the law in the country
ARTICLE - 9

 Payments to be received direct from the purchaser and not through commission agents
or intermediaries if these are not authorized prior to the sale
 Follow proper accounting procedures of the financial transactions and periodical
auditing to identify suspicious transactions
REPORTING OF IRREGULAR TRANSACTIONS
The companies engaged in the manufacture, preparation, processing, storage, distribution, importation,
exportation, marketing and transportation of the chemicals listed in Table-I & II shall immediately
report to the Competent National Authorities (CNAs) any transaction or proposed transaction to which
they are parties when they have reasonable grounds to suspect that such chemicals may be used in the
production, manufacture, preparation or extraction of illicit narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances.
Reasonable grounds of suspicion are as follows:
Domestic Trade
1. Purchasers not willing to give all the required information and declarations
2. Purchaser's offer to pay much higher price for immediate supply.
3. Purchaser's offer of payment by cash only
4. Purchaser's offer to pick up supply in own vehicle
5. Walk-in-clients coming in person at the supplier's premises
6. Placement of orders for unusual large quantities
7. Placing order for special packing, especially in small containers
8. Request for delivery at a place other than the consignee address mentioned in delivery
documents
9. Any order for abnormal quantities received from existing customers must be reported to the
Competent National Authorities. Situations wherein the quantity ordered is more than
double the normal order usually placed or any order in excess by 50kg/Litre can be viewed as
abnormal quantity.
International Trade
The industry and trade must comply with provisions of their respective national legislations in regard to
import/ export of the substances. Internationally, a Pre-Export Notification (PEN) regime is in place
that requires CNAs to communicate an intended import/export to their concerned counterpart by
issuing PEN in respect of the substances listed in Table I & II of the UN Convention, 1988.
The CNA of the exporting country informs the CNA of the importing country of the intended export.
The latter is required to conduct verification of the bonafides of the importing company/importer and
communicate their finding to the CNA of the exporting country within 15 days. On receipt of clearance
from the importing country, the CNA of the exporting country issues a NOC for export of the
substance. The CNA also notifies the countries through which the consignment transits to prevent
diversion from normal trade.
ARTICLE - 12
In case no response is received within the stipulated time frame, the CNA of the exporting country
permits the export.
The CNA may also stop the shipment from taking place in case it receives an adverse communication
from the importing country before the actual export takes place.
On their part, the industry and trade must try to identify suspicious transactions during the course of
their business in international trade. Reasonable grounds of suspicion are as follows:
1. Destination of the goods - Consignments destined to drug- producing region or areas
adjoining a country known for illicit manufacture of drugs. The consignees in the border
areas may be fictitious.
2. Beware of orders received through the internet
3. Requirement for the chemical in the importing country
4. Irregular ordering pattern
5. Is there a bona fide delivery address? Does the address indicate Post Office Box no?
6. Does the customer require it in an individual's name in the company or in the name of the
company/ firm?
7. Orders received from importer based in a country with request to ship the consignment to a
different country
8. Offer to pay full amount prior to export of the consignment
9. Request to ship the consignment through a specific carrier or to follow a specific route,
which may not be the normal route
10. Documents such as import permits produced appear to be forged
11. Payments received from a country different from the destination of the goods
12. Customers not willing to enter into regular correspondence or continue to maintain contact
13. Conduct which is normally against good business practice
The industry and trade, whenever they come across a transaction involving one or more of the grounds
referred to above, must immediately bring to the notice of the CNA such instances without any delay
and also cooperate and assist in the follow-up investigation. A suspect transaction reporting format
should be devised and all such transactions when reported to the CNAs may be shared at its discretion
with the trade and industry.
The cooperation of the industry and trade in reporting suspect transactions will not only facilitate the
CNAs / Regulatory / Enforcement authorities in preventing the diversion of the substances from licit
trade and in identifying the persons involved, but will also protect the industry and trade in the event of
backtrack investigation by the authorities.
DISPOSAL OF PRECURSOR CHEMICALS
The industry and trade must destroy or dispose of any of the substances or formulations or mixtures
containing those substances only with the prior approval and under the supervision of the Regulatory
Authority, in the manner prescribed by it.ARTICLE - 14
ARTICLE - 15
NON SCHEDULED SUBSTANCES
Some of the substances used in the illicit drug manufacture that are listed in Tables I and II of the 1988
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances have
become especially difficult for traffickers to obtain as more and more States have implemented the
provisions of that Convention. Traffickers have therefore sought to obtain chemicals that may be used
as substitutes for those that are more closely monitored. They have found and used new methods for
processing or manufacture, requiring substances that are currently not under international control.
The industry and trade must commit itself by showing responsibility for its actions and establish
uniform procedures and a common approach to prevent the diversion of the substances included in the
Limited International Special Surveillance List. They must also consider:
To provide the necessary education to staff and, where practical, to end-users; to sensitize and raise their
understanding of the use of the substances included in the limited international special surveillance list
in illicit drug manufacture; and to create a greater awareness of the need to adopt measures to prevent
the diversion from licit channels to the illicit traffic of such substances
To nominate one or more liaison officers to ensure that appropriate systems and procedures are
introduced and maintained including reporting of suspicious orders and inquiries, and train staff to
identify suspicious inquiries and orders to facilitate implementation of the monitoring programmes
To encourage a climate of self regulation and to develop a culture of active participation with the
relevant Competent National Authorities, whereby suspicion and not regulatory control, forms the basis
of initiating investigations
MUTUAL COOPERATION
The Competent National Authorities and the members of the industry and trade should foster a spirit of
mutual cooperation. While the industry and trade should comply with the requirements of the
regulatory mechanism on precursor control and assist the enforcement authorities in the investigation
of diversion cases, the regulatory and enforcement authorities should create awareness on the need for
exercising precursor chemical control and enhance their knowledge by educating the management and
staff to identify suspicious transactions while updating them on the recent trends adopted by the illegal
drug trade in the use of chemicals for the manufacture of drugs. The industry and trade should
nominate one or more liaison officers at field level to facilitate timely sharing of information on
suspicious orders and its investigation.
Voluntary Code of Conduct (VCC) for Trade and Industry 9
RTICLE - 16
ICLE - 17
NATIONAL LEGISLATIONS
The procedures prescribed above may be followed complementing the provisions already laid down in
the respective national legislations. Wherever procedures prescribed above appear to be contrary to the
procedures laid down under the national legislation, the procedures laid down in the respective national
legislation shall prevail.
CONFIDENTIALITY
All information provided shall be treated as confidential and not divulged to any person save and except
for law enforcement, judicial or internal control purposes, or for international cooperation.
The CNAs of each country must hold periodical meetings with the industry and trade and update the
Voluntary Code of Conduct by including/ excluding practices depending upon the situation prevailing
in each country.
This model VCC is not exhaustive and countries may amend/include/exclude specific procedures as
per their legal regimes or needs.



World Chemical Engineering Council
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Chemical Engineering 
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Project global image of the profession increasing public knowledge and awareness of the contributions of chemical engineers and the industries served by the profession.
Facilitate global dissemination of chemical engineering technical knowledge and industrial best practices.
Become a resource to international organisations in providing position statements
Promote conservation and care of global resources, health, safety, and the environment.
Promote a high standard of professional ethics and conduct for chemical engineers worldwide.
Serve as a vehicle/forum for communication, collaboration and linkage
.. between national and regional chemical engineering societies (e.g.: sharing of ideas to overcome problems common within existing societies)
.. with other, non-chemical-engineering technical associations.
Promote international standards and accreditation for chemical engineering educational programmes and work towards engineers' right to practice globally.
World Federation of Engineering Organisations
Region: Worldwide
Country: N/A
Type of Organisation: Engineering (including Chemical)
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Undated
Disclaimer: Please note the codes in our collection might not necessarily be the most recent versions. Please contact the individual organizations or their websites to verify if a more recent or updated code of ethics is available. CSEP does not hold copyright on any of the codes of ethics in our collection. Any permission to use the codes must be sought from the individual organizations directly.
WFEO MODELCODE OF ETHICS
As engineering professionals, we use our knowledge and skills for the for the benefit of world, in order to create engineering solutions for a sustainable future. In doing so, we strive to serve our communities ahead of any personal or sectional interests.
To do so successfully requires ethical behavior. Simply put, ethical behavior is about making choices. In line with our obligations as professionals, we wish to ensure that the choices that we make as engineers enable us to do things which are ‘good’. In addition, we wish to ensure that we do these ‘good things’ in a manner which is ‘right’.
The WFEO Model Code of Ethics is designed to assist member organisations in guiding ethical behavior by formulating their own Codes of Ethics. A Code of Ethics must do two things. First, it must provide guidance on the Values we must adhere to in professional practice if we are to make the ‘good’ choices referred to above. Second, a Code of Ethics must set out the Principles we must follow in applying those values, in order to do things in a manner which is right.
The exercise of professional judgment is often difficult and complex. The inherent nature of ‘professionalism’ is that as engineers we always have a duty to others and an obligation to ‘do the right thing’. Exactly who the ‘others are’, and what the ‘right thing’ is, will be a matter of continual balance. We are expected to get the balance right. We also know that each situation may be different, requiring specific choices depending on the circumstances.
A Code of Ethics will not give us all the answers nor tell us what to do under all circumstances. Ethical behaviour reflects an individual’s perceptions of right and wrong, guided by their conscience and the values they adhere to.
In drafting the WFEO Model Code of Ethics, considerable care has been taken to try and get the balance of obligations right, without making statements that could be misleading (and cause problems for members) when interpreted narrowly.
Imposition of duties upon members which they cannot realistically satisfy and the inclusion of provisions which restrain commercial activity and have a negative effect is not the function of a code of ethics.
The values and principles in the WFEO Model Code of Ethics are those which are deemed to be applicable universally to the practice of engineering. The WFEO Model Code of Ethics provides a framework for analysis and decision making about the appropriateness of particular conduct or behaviour.
As engineering practitioners our (preferred) future is dependent on engagement and trust from our community. An engineer who practises in accordance with the Model Code of Ethics and the Guidelines will meet these community expectations of responsibility.
The general question of the duties engineering practitioners owe to the community are best captured in an ethics awareness program.
Member organisations of WFEO are encouraged to develop a Code of Ethics for their organisation based on the values and principles set down in the Model Code and to impart the values and principles that individuals need to assist their decision making process through ethics support programs.
The Guidelines appended to the Model Code set out the principles which underpin each value and give examples of each principle in practice.
2 WFEO MODEL CODE OF ETHICS
In the course of engineering practice, professional engineers will:
1. DEMONSTRATE INTEGRITY
1.1 Refrain from fraudulent, corrupt or criminal practices
1.2 Be objective and truthful
1.3 Practise fairly and with good faith towards clients, colleagues and others
2. PRACTISE COMPETENTLY
2.1 Practise in a careful and diligent manner in accordance with their areas of competence
2.2 Practise in accordance with accepted engineering practices, standards and codes
2.3 Maintain and strive to enhance the body of knowledge in which they practise
3. EXERCISE LEADERSHIP
3.1 Practise so as to enhance the quality of life in society
3.2 Strive to contribute to the advancement of the body of knowledge within which they practise, and to the profession in general
3.3 Foster the public’s understanding of technical issues and the role of engineering
4. PROTECT THE NATURAL AND BUILT ENVIRONMENT
4.1 Create and implement engineering solutions for a sustainable future
4.2 Be mindful of the economic, societal and environmental consequences of actions or projects
4.3 Promote and protect the health, safety and well being of the community and the environment
 
GUIDELINES
The primary purpose of a Code of Ethics is to protect the public and to set a high standard of proprietary conduct among engineering practitioners.
Ethical practice requires judgment, interpretation and balanced decision-making in context.
These Guidelines underpin the ethical values expressed in the Code of Ethics and provide examples of the application of those values in practice. They are not exhaustive, nor should they be interpreted as a full or exhaustive list of the ethical situations and circumstances that engineers might face. Rather, the Guidelines provide a framework for ethical decision making in the practice of engineering.
1. DEMONSTRATE INTEGRITY
1.1 Refrain from fraudulent, corrupt or criminal practices
Corruption is “the abuse of power to obtain personal gain”. Corruption is not limited to money or goods. It might be to gain fame or popularity or boost an ego. Combating the disastrous effects of corruption in the global engineering and construction industry is a top priority because if corruption can be diminished, the poor of the world will be helped most.
Taking a bribe in an infrastructure contract equates to stealing a road! It means that less money is available for the provision of the infrastructure itself. Similarly, corrupt or unreasonable industrial practices are a form of corruption, as they also reduce the amount of infrastructure that can be provided for a given amount of money.
In practice, engineers must exhibit a zero tolerance attitude to fraudulent, corrupt or criminal practices.
This means:
1.  a) not engaging in misleading or deceptive conduct such as succumbing to the wrong influence.
2.  b) neither soliciting nor accepting financial or other considerations, including free engineering designs, from material or equipment suppliers for specifying their products.
3.  c) not accepting compensation, financial or otherwise, from the engaging party for services on the same project, nor providing free services, unless the circumstances are fully disclosed to, and agreed to, by all interested parties.
4.  d) neither paying offering nor receiving, directly or indirectly, inducements to secure work.
5.  e) informing an employer or client of any possible adverse consequences of proposed activities based on the accepted engineering practices of the day.
6.  f) reporting unethical engineering activity undertaken by other engineers or non-engineers. This extends to include for example, situations in which senior officials of a firm make “executive” decisions which clearly and substantially alter the engineering aspects of the work, or protection of the public welfare or the environment arising from the work.
1.2 Be objective and truthful
Honesty, integrity, continuously updated competence, devotion to service and dedication to enhancing the life quality of society are cornerstones of professional responsibility. Within this framework, you should be objective and truthful and include all known and pertinent information on professional reports, statements and testimony.
In practice, this means:
a) endeavouring to interpret engineering issues to the public in an objective and truthful manner.
b) applying your skills and knowledge with honesty, good faith and without personal bias.
c) ensuring that your privileged and trusted position in the community is not used for personal or sectional interests to the detriment of the wider community.
d) revealing the existence of any interest, financial or otherwise, that might affect or give the appearance of affecting your judgment in any matter about which you are making a statement or giving evidence.
1.3 Practise fairly and with good faith towards clients, colleagues and others
As an engineer, you have a responsibility to provide loyal service to your clients and employers for whom you should apply your knowledge and skills with fairness, honesty and in good faith. You have an obligation to exercise fairness in dealing with others and to provide support and assistance when required. This includes engaging, or advising to engage, experts or specialists when such services are deemed to be in the client’s or employer’s best interests.
In practice, this means:
a) giving credit where it is due.
b) accepting, as well as giving, honest and fair professional criticism when commenting on another’s work or making public comment.
c) not revealing facts, data or information obtained in a professional capacity without the prior consent of its owner.
d) advising your clients or employers when you judge that a project will not be viable, whether on the basis of commercial, technical, environmental or any other such risk which you might reasonably have been expected to consider.
e) avoiding any actions or statements which can be construed as being unfairly critical of a colleague or intended to favour your own position at the expense of a colleague.
2. PRACTISE COMPETENTLY
2.1 Practise in a careful and diligent manner in accordance with their areas of competence
There are three key components to engineering practice, with the Code of Ethics being just one of those components. The other two key components are competence and performance.
The Code of Ethics defines what it means to be a professional and sets standards of behaviour, competence refers to the ability to perform the activities within an occupation to the standards expected in employment and performance is associated with how these activities ought to be carried out or accomplished in an effective manner.
You need to understand the distinction between working or providing advice in an area of competence and working competently. Working in an area of competence requires you to operate within the limits of your qualifications and experiences. Working competently requires principally the application of sound judgment.
In practice, this means:
a) exercising care and communicating clearly in accepting or interpreting assignments, and in setting expected outcomes.
b) informing employers or clients, and making appropriate recommendations on obtaining further advice, if an assignment requires qualifications and experiences outside your fields of competence.
c) presenting issues fairly, accurately and with appropriate qualifiers and disclaimers, and to avoid personal, political and other non-technical biases.
d) expressing opinions on engineering issues honestly and only in areas of your competence.
e) reporting or advising on professional matters honestly and only in areas of your competence.
f) attaining and maintaining competence in all areas of involvement including being knowledgeable with the technical and legal framework and regulations governing your work.
2.2 Practise in accordance with accepted engineering practices, standards and codes
The work you undertake will be subject to various statutory regulations and compliance issues. It is important that you identify what codes and/or standards of compliance and/or legislation you are required to adhere to in respect of a particular project. This should form part of the Brief, which should also allocate responsibility for such compliance. Where statutory codes do not exist, it may be necessary to develop appropriate standards based on internationally recognised sound practice.
In practice, this means:
a) Developing a checklist of relevant codes - before each project (and during each project) review the relevance and compliance with each code identified.
b) Examining legislative impacts - seek external assistance to identify what legislation is peculiar to this project
c) Reviewing Occupational Health & Safety issues - consider anything peculiar relating to this project; address with the client any observations of unsafe work practices noted during site visits - this may not be your responsibility yet you may be held partially liable if you fail to make such comments.
d) Ensuring Sub Consultant Compliance - obtain evidence of current compliance with OH&S legislation and other code and legislative obligations.
2.3 Maintain and strive to enhance the body of knowledge in which they practice
The requirement to practice within one’s area of competence is more than simply duty to a standard of care. Engineers have a responsibility to remain abreast of developments and knowledge in their area of expertise, that is, to maintain their own competence. Should there be a technologically driven or individually motivated shift in the area of practice, it is the engineer’s duty to attain and maintain competence in all areas of involvement including being knowledgeable with the technical and legal framework and regulations governing their work.
In practice, this means:
a) having a commitment to ongoing professional development, continuing education and training.
b) not falsifying or misrepresenting one’s own or an associates’ qualifications, grades of membership, experience and responsibilities.
c) striving to contribute to the advancement of the body of knowledge within which you practice, and to the profession in general.
d) assessing and responding to the range and availability of professional knowledge, competencies and resources required to undertake the engineering project and assessing any material uncertainties in these respects.
3. EXERCISE LEADERSHIP
3.1 Practise so as to enhance the quality of life in society
 Engineers are sometimes perceived by many in the community as being major contributors to many of the problems in the world, particularly environmental. Having been painted with that brush, engineers are expected to be fundamental in solving or correcting those problems.
But the major problems of the world in an overall sense are not those created by engineers or that can be solved by engineers alone. War, greed, misery, ignorance and political interference, plus natural disasters and human induced pollution and destruction of resources are in fact the main causes of the progressive impairment of the environment.
Rarely do major problems in society turn solely upon the application of engineering development. But engineers are active members of society and ought to be deeply involved in the promotion of sustainable development. They ought to use their talent, knowledge and imagination to assist society in removing those evils and improving the quality of life for all people.
In practice, this means:
a) aiming to deliver outcomes that do not compromise the ability of future life to enjoy the same or better environment, health, wellbeing and safety as currently enjoyed.
b) being sensitive to public concerns. c) promoting the involvement of all stakeholders and the community in decisions and processes that may impact upon them and their environment.
d) in identifying sustainable outcomes considering all options in terms of their economic, environmental and social consequences.
3.2 Strive to contribute to the advancement of the body of knowledge within which they practice, and to the profession in general
A Code of Ethics is based on shared values and a shared responsibility to uphold those values.
In practice, this means:
a) exercising fairness in dealing with others and providing support and assistance when required.
b) offering services, advising on or undertaking engineering assignments in areas of your competence by virtue of your training and experience.
c) participating, within the framework of the practice of your profession, in providing opportunities to further the professional development of your colleagues.
3.3 Foster the public’s understanding of technical issues and the role of engineering
As engineers we possess knowledge and skills on which others rely. Our future is ultimately dependent on engagement and trust from our community. It is important that we meet these community expectations by practising in ways which maintain and enhance community trust in the values and expertise of the engineering profession.
When clients or others question your reasoning, or otherwise request an explanation, there is an expectation that you will be willing and able to explain why you have arrived at your particular outcome, especially as checking and justifying what we do are embedded in the way the engineering task develops.
The notion of explaining one’s reasoning and seeking peer review is thought by many to be fundamental to professional integrity, but in no way denies the appropriateness of legitimate differences of reasoned opinion arrived at in a proper and professional manner.
 In practice, this means:
a) endeavouring to ensure that information provided to the public is relevant and in a readily understood form.
b) applying sound engineering judgment based on experience and relevant analysis to arrive at the appropriate balance of considerations in any given situation.
c) taking reasonable steps to understand the consequences of your actions and the actions of those working with or for you.
d) displaying restraint in the manner in which you comment on engineering matters, especially in circumstances where, by explicit reference or implication, there is a reason for the public to believe that such comments are made on the basis of relevant knowledge.
4. PROTECT THE NATURAL AND BUILT ENVIRONMENT
4.1 Create and implement engineering solutions for a sustainable future
Issues regarding the environment and sustainable development know no geographical boundaries.
Sustainability is not just about the environment, but also about sustaining our social and economic future. It is not about targets, or quotas, but about strategies. It is not just about technologies, but also about transitional processes. No matter how progressive the innovations in management and technology, they can only move society so far towards sustainability. Modification of consumption behaviour, integrating political and societal aspirations and policies, and advancing the knowledge and skills to enhance the protection and restoration of natural systems all remain important issues to be addressed.
Sustainable development is the challenge of meeting current human needs for natural resources, industrial products, energy, food, transportation, shelter, and effective waster management while conserving and, if possible, enhancing the Earths’ environmental quality, natural resources, ethical, intellectual and working affectionate capabilities of people and socioeconomic bases, essential for the human needs of future generations.
Growth in demand and the use of non-renewable energy resources is creating important environmental challenges around the world. These challenges range from a mixture of local or regional environmental concerns such as land degradation, water quality, waste management and urban air quality to global environmental dilemmas such as GHG emissions and the interconnected occurrence of global warming.
In practice, this means:
a) being aware that the principles of eco-systemic interdependence, diversity maintenance, resource recovery and inter-relational harmony form the basis of humankind’s continued existence and that each of these poses a threshold of sustainability that should not be exceeded.
b) discussing in particular the consequences of proposals and actions, direct or indirect, immediate or long term, upon the health of people, social equity and the local system of values.
c) promoting a clear understanding of the actions required to restore and, if possible, to improve the environment that may be disturbed, and include them in your proposals.
4.2 Be mindful of the economic, societal and environmental consequences of actions or projects
Proper observance of the principles of sustainable development will help considerably to eradicate world poverty. Sustainability is a system or process which can be maintained indefinitely and which revolves around integrating conservation and development on a long-term basis to provide social and economic benefits, without compromising the needs of future generations. Engineers of all nations should know and respect the environmental ethics.
In practice, this means:
a) making sure that your own perception of environmental issues is as accurate as possible.
b) striving to accomplish the beneficial objectives of your work with the lowest possible consumption of raw materials and energy and the lowest production of wastes and any kind of pollution.
c) studying the environment that will be affected by your work, assessing the impacts that might arise in the structure, dynamics and aesthetics of the ecosystems involved - urbanised or natural - as well as pertinent socioeconomic systems, and selecting the best alternative for development that is both environmentally sound and sustainable.
d) rejecting any kind of commitment that involves unfair damages to human surroundings and nature and aim for the best possible technical, social and political solution. e) being aware of and making sure that clients and employers are aware of societal and environmental consequences of actions or projects and endeavouring to interpret engineering issues to the public in an objective and truthful manner.
4.3 Promote and protect the health, safety and well being of the community and the environment
The obligation to protect the health, safety and well being of the community is often dependent on engineering judgments, risk assessments, decisions and practices incorporated into structures, machines, product, processes and devices. Engineers ought to control and make sure that what they are involved with conforms to accepted engineering practices, standards and applicable codes, and would be considered safe based on peer adjudication.
Laudable though the aim of acting in the interests of the community above all else might be, there is a danger in making simplistic statements that say categorically that our duties and responsibilities lie in only one direction, implying by such statements that we have a duty to override (and not balance) legal, fiduciary and contractual responsibilities if they conflict with that ‘grand’ duty. In practical terms, those legal duties and obligations will arise principally in two specific contexts. First, there will be duties and obligations of engineers to their clients. Second, there will be duties and obligations of those engineers who are employees to their employers. In some cases there may be a conflict/tension between legal duties and ethical obligations.
Engineers who have reason to believe that there is a threat to public health and safety as a result of an engineering activity, or its products, processes etc. not conforming to the above stated conditions ought to bring the matter to the attention of the relevant authority.
In practice, this means:
a) having due regard for the health, safety and wellbeing of the public and fellow employees in all work for which they are responsible.
b) trying with the best of their ability, courage, enthusiasm and dedication to obtain a superior technical achievement which will contribute to and promote a healthy and agreeable surrounding for all people, in open spaces as well as indoors.
c) informing your employer or contractor of the possible consequences if your recommendations on issues of safety, health, welfare or sustainable development are overruled or ignored.
Yara Code of Conduct
Region: WEOG
Country: Norway
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Conduct

Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and Code of Conduct
Yara has grown from a mixture of scientific research and commercial daring that revolutionized modern agriculture.
From the beginning the company has combined strong commercial principles with a long-term growth perspective. This included a nation-building role that created a keen awareness of our social and environmental responsibility.
Today, Yara’s corporate responsibility is determined by two defining characteristics – we are a public listed company and a global business with
local operations – and by our ambition to become the Industry Shaper.
Listed Company
As a listed company we have a responsibility to deliver on our promises to stakeholders. We are committed to doing this by employing strategies that balance financial, environmental and social performance.
Ambitions
    Yara will operate in a sustainable manner in order to create long-term value through superior financial performance.
    Yara will strive to attain the highest standards of corporate governance.
    Yara’s core values – ambition, trust, teamwork and accountability – will be reflected in our behavior and in our business conduct.
Commitments
    We will communicate promptly, completely and accurately with our customers, employees, suppliers, community members, shareholders, regulators, and all others with whom we do business. We will not mislead these stakeholders and will only make promises to them that we can keep.
    We will maintain accurate and reliable records to meet our legal and financial obligations and to manage our affairs. Our books and records will reflect accurately all business transactions.
    We will not permit undisclosed or unrecorded revenues, expenses, assets or liabilities. We will never create or participate in the creation of records that are misleading.
    We will cooperate fully with Yara’s internal and independent auditors.
    We will avoid conflict of interest situations. We will avoid any situation that may create, or may seem to create, a conflict between personal interests and the interests of Yara.
    We will comply with the rules of the Oslo Børs and will not permit the use of company information that is not available to the public to make stock trades.
    We will comply with the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance.
Global Business
As a truly global company with local operations on five continents,
lue and has a fundamental
al partnership based on trust ting sustainable agriculture
Ambitions
    Yara will take a leading role in the sustainable development of the industry through an active dialogue and cooperation with all stakeholders.
    Yara will develop and explore existing and new markets and businesses where this is in the interests of, and of benefit to, our stakeholders, with the ambition to be a good local citizen.
    Yara will support and respect the principles set forth in the UN Global Compact
Commitments
    We will make a positive contribution to the societies in which we operate by providing employment, investing in infrastructure and supporting local initiatives.
    We will encourage our employees to use on the job training, rotation and education to further their personal and professional development.
    We will strive to minimize the environmental impact of our operations.
    We are committed to fairness in the workplace and will respect the rights, culture and dignity of all individuals.
    We will act fairly and justly and will not tolerate any form of discrimination or harassment directed at any individual or group.
    We will not accept any child labour or any form of forced or compulsory labour in our operations.
    We will base the cooperation between management, the employees and their unions on open communication and dialog. Respect for collective agreements will be practiced at all levels.
    We will comply with the laws, rules and regulations in the countries and communities in which we operate.
    We will never offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form, either directly or indirectly. If and to
the extent appropriate under the circumstances, we may give or accept gifts and entertainment that are
for business purposes, that are not material or frequent, and that reflect the custom in the industry and locale.
    We will not buy sexual services when on Yara assignments or business trips
    We will always compete vigorously and independently in the conduct of our business. We will not act
in contravention of antitrust or competition laws in any of the jurisdictions in which we do business.
    We will not make contributions to political parties or participate in election campaigns. This does not in any way restrict the freedom of our employees to participate in political activities.
    We will not choose business partners to do things on our behalf that contravene these commitments. In joint operations, we will apply these commitments where we are operators, and where we are not, we will seek
to influence our partners such that the joint operation adheres to these commitments.
    We will seek business partners that foster trust in our relationship. When considering a business partnership, we will base our choice of partner not only on economic considerations, but also on a number of other factors, including, where appropriate, safety, health, environmental management and sustainable conduct.
Industry Shaper
As a global supplier of plant nutrition with presence throughout the product life cycle, Yara is uniquely equipped, and committed, to driving the development of our industry to ensure the highest standards of performance and behavior.
Ambitions
    Yara will drive the industry in pursuing common high standards and anchoring best practices.
    Yara will promote product stewardship to ensure that the entire value chain, from raw material sourcing to end use, is rooted in sustainable conduct and consideration for health, environment, safety, quality and food safety.
    Yara will support the development of sustainable agriculture.
Commitments
    We will work to minimize environmental impact throughout the value chain and apply technology and methods to this end.
    We will encourage safety conscious behavior, both in the workplace and beyond. We seek to create an incident- and injury free work environment for  all employees and contractors. Our employees will play an active role
in identifying and rectifying unsafe situations.
    Our products will maintain high quality and make a positive contribution to the global food chain.
    We will cooperate with customers, suppliers and partners to encourage the safe and correct handling and use of our products.
    We will stimulate improvement throughout the value chain by conducting an active and open dialogue with customers, partners and other stakeholders.
    We will support, promote and lead industry organizations that promote these goals and work actively with governmental and non-governmental organizations to achieve them.
    We will actively support technological innovation to improve and enhance agricultural productivity.
Achieving our ambitions and acting on our commitments
The ambitions and commitments that we have stated are intended to guide the conduct of all of the directors, officers, employees and representatives of Yara and its subsidiaries. Each of these individuals is responsible for making sure that our business decisions and actions comply at all times with the letter and spirit of this Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and Code of Conduct.
    All Yara supervisors and managers, including our officers and directors, have a responsibility to lead according to our ambitions and commitments in both words and actions.
    All Yara supervisors and managers are expected to promote these ambitions and commitments and to be available to anyone with concerns, questions or complaints about them.
    All Yara employees are encouraged to raise questions or issues about these matters with their supervisors, a member of the human resource department, a member of the legal department, a member of internal
audit or raise issues by sending a mail to ethics@yara.com.
    All concerns, questions and complaints will be taken seriously and handled promptly, confidentially and professionally.
    No retaliation will be taken against any employee for raising any concern, question or complaint in good faith.
YARA’S SUCCESS AS A LISTED COMPANY, A GLOBAL BUSINESS AND AS THE INDUSTRY SHAPER IS DEPENDENT UPON THE PUBLIC TRUST AND OUR ETHICAL REPUTATION.
 For further information please contact:
Yara International ASA Postboks 343, Skøyen
0213 Oslo Norway www.yara.com
Yara Code of Ethics
Region: WEOG
Country: Norway
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Code of Ethics

Knowledge grows
Ethics Handbook
 1. Teamwork
A Common Responsibility
All of us - employees, consultants and contractors alike - are part of the Yara team.
Our other teammates include our business partners as well as our customers, communities and shareholders. We have a common responsibility to help our company positively shape our industry. To work as a team, we must all pull in the same direction.
1.1 What is the Ethics Handbook?
This Ethics Handbook outlines Yara’s commitment to ethical and compliant business practices. It forms a framework by which we can all ensure we are upholding Yara’s core values in our daily work. The handbook is structured around these values: Ambition, trust, teamwork and accountability. In addition, it gives us concrete support and guidance when we face ethics or compliance dilemmas in our work.
1.2 How does the Handbook relate to the Code of Conduct?
Our Code of Conduct sets forth the fundamental principles by which we must conduct our work. This handbook was created as a practical tool to help us to achieve the key principles listed in our Code. Each of us is responsible for making sure that our business decisions and actions comply with the letter and spirit of not only the Code of Conduct, but also this handbook.
1.3 Who do these documents apply to?
The Code of Conduct and Ethics Handbook apply to all of us
- including employees, consultants and contractors working on Yara’s behalf. Yara also expects its business partners, including agents, suppliers, distributors and JV partners,
to abide by the same or similar principles in their own operations.
1.4 What are Yara’s responsibilities?
Yara has a responsibility to provide us the tools necessary to address any ethics or compliance issues we may face in our work. To ensure this, our company holds itself accountable to:
1.  Post relevant and updated rules and guidelines in our Steering System
2.  Make available the training and ethics tools we need to handle everyday ethics and compliance dilemmas
3.  Ensure any reports made to the Ethics Hotline are treated confidentially and the review of all reports is impartial and protects the identity of the reporter
4.  Ensure that no one faces retribution for reports made in good faith
1.5 What responsibilities do managers have?
If you are a manager, you have additional responsibilities that go beyond following the Code of Conduct and Ethics Handbook. In particular, you have a responsibility to lead by example at all times and to uphold the principles set forth in Yara’s Code of Conduct and Ethics Handbook, promoting them whenever possible. In addition, you are expected to:
1.  Provide support and guidance on integrating the Code of Conduct and Ethics Handbook into daily work
2.  Support ethics and compliance initiatives and training, ensuring that those who report to you complete all required training
3.  Address existing processes or practices that are not in line with the Code of Conduct or the Ethics Handbook
4.  Encourage those who report to you to raise questions and concerns about ethical and legal dilemmas, and make yourself available to receive them
5.  Take all questions, concerns and reports seriously
6.  Make every attempt to confidentially handle any issue brought to your attention, fully documenting every issue. Bring any questions or concerns you have to your manager, a Regional Compliance Coordinator (see section 2.8) or the Ethics and Compliance Department
7.  Monitor compliance with the Code of Conduct and the Ethics Handbook
8.  Ensure our business partners are aware of Yara’s Code of Conduct, the Ethics Handbook and our ethical standards
1.6 What responsibilities do we all share?
We are all expected to read and abide by the Code of Conduct and Ethics Handbook, and integrate the principles they set forth in the way we conduct business. In addition, we are expected to:
1.  Follow the guidelines set forth in the Code of Conduct and Ethics Handbook and seek guidance when in need of assistance
2.  If existing processes and practices appear not to be in line with the Code of Conduct or Ethics Handbook, raise the issue with your line manager

3.  Attend and actively participate in ethics and compliance initiatives and complete all required training
4.  Spread the word about ethics and compliance to our colleagues and business partners
1.7 How can I make ethical decisions?
If you find yourself facing an ethical dilemma, you should  ask yourself the following questions about the action you are considering:
    Is it legal?

    Is it in accordance with Yara policies and procedures?

    Is it fair and ethical?

    Have I sought advice and support from my line manager or another Yara resource?
The answer to all of these questions must be “yes.” If this is not the case or you have any doubts, do not participate in the activity. Instead, you should seek guidance by following the steps set forth in Section 2.8.
1.8 How can I seek guidance and make reports?
It is your right and responsibility to obtain guidance about a business practice or compliance issue when you are uncertain about what action to take. You are always encouraged to contact your line manager.
In addition to the Ethics and Compliance Department which you can contact directly at ethics@yara.com, there are regional resources called Regional Compliance Coordinators (RCC). While the RCCs do not have the authority to make decisions for you regarding ethical matters, they are there to provide you with resources, point you to the right direction and be a sounding board for any questions you may have. Please visit the Ethics Portal for their contact information.
You can also contact the Human Resources Department or the Legal Department, depending on your question. The proper internal resources to contact are listed after each section of this handbook.
You are also strongly encouraged to report any possible violations of the Code of Conduct or the Ethics Handbook by contacting your line manager or any of the other resources listed in this handbook, including the Ethics Hotline, which is discussed in detail below.


Ethics Hotline
Yara has engaged an external service provider to operate the Ethics Hotline, also known as a “whistleblowing line.” The Ethics Hotline is a confidential system by which we can report any unethical behavior we may know of or suspect at Yara.
If you work outside of Europe, you can report anonymously on any topic.
If you work within Europe, with the exception of Spain and France, you are allowed to report anonymously on any matter relating to financial, accounting or corruption related matters due to local regulations. For other matters, you are allowed to report anonymously but discouraged to do so. Instead you are advised to request confidentiality when reporting.
There are additional requirements for employees who work in Spain and France.
If you work in Spain you are not allowed to report anonymously on any matter. If you work in France you are discouraged from reporting anonymously on any matter, but
allowed to report anonymously on financial, accounting or corruption related matters. Wherever you are located you may always request confidentiality when reporting. This means that your report will be handled confidentially within Yara, and your identity will only be disclosed on a strict need-to-know basis.
Yara is however entitled to, and sometimes obliged to, investigate any report regardless of under which condition or circumstances it was received.
The Ethics Hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. You can report in over 60 languages via the Hotline’s free local phone number or through a dedicated external website. Visit the Ethics Portal for contact details, including a short summary about the Hotline and a link to the external site.
1.9 What if I’m concerned about reporting?
Yara will not tolerate retribution or retaliation against anyone who has sought advice or reported a suspected ethical or legal violation in good faith. Reporting in “good faith” means that you provide all of the information you have and believe it to be true. If anyone deliberately makes a false report, that person may be subject to disciplinary action.
Norwegian law, as well as the laws of many other countries, also gives protection to those who report in good faith. The law states that retaliation against the reporter is illegal and punishable by law.
1.10    Where can I find additional ethics tools?
In addition to the tools discussed above, there are a number of tools available to help us make the right decisions.
Ethics Portal
The Ethics Portal contains information for employees and managers to use when dealing with possible ethical or legal dilemmas. In addition, you can post questions or participate in discussions posted on the Ethics Resources page. You can access the site through a link on the intranet homepage.
Ethics Videos
In the Ethics Portal, you can find information on how to access our interactive training videos, called “The Code”.
These videos cover a range of different topics including ethical due diligence, child labor, contractors, corruption, personal conduct, facilitation payments and gifts and entertainment.
The Ethics Videos are in English, but subtitled in our nine corporate languages. Please visit the Ethics Portal for more information on how to access the Ethics Videos.
Ethics Training
Yara provides consistent ethics training sessions where we can discuss some of the issues that we encounter in our daily work. The training sessions are mandatory and interactive, and will reinforce the importance of instilling ethics and compliance within our organization.
1.11    What are the consequences of unethical behavior?
Yara will not tolerate unethical behavior. Conscious  or continued breaches of Yara’s ethical standards and guidelines may result in disciplinary action, up to and
including termination. All disciplinary action will be taken in accordance with local policies and laws.
Violations of these standards and guidelines may also subject individuals to possible civil and criminal penalties.
Please note that refusing to do something unethical will not lead to any form of retribution, retaliation or discipline.
2.  Trust
Personal Integrity
According to Yara values, trust will be recognized when we:
    Are honest and treat people with respect
    Give direct and constructive feedback
    Don’t blame others
    Learn from our own mistakes
    Are fair and give credit when credit is due

Trust is promoted when we exhibit personal integrity. “Personal integrity” means doing the right thing, even when nobody is watching. It means treating yourself, your colleagues and our business partners fairly and honestly at all times.
2.1 Encouraging an Inclusive Workplace
Diversity in our workforce helps us to attract and retain top talent, which is crucial to Yara’s success. We must
therefore be committed to promoting a diverse, inclusive and productive working environment that is defined by mutual respect. To do so, we must respect our colleagues and their ideas. We must also be sensitive to and respectful of cultural differences.
We strive to create an environment where hiring and development is based only on our achievements, qualifications and skills. This means that we do not make employment-related decisions on the basis of legally protected characteristics. Such characteristics may include national origin, union membership, race, religion, age, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, veteran status,religion or mental or physical disability.
Yara is also committed to providing us a working environment free of harassment. While legal definitions may vary from  one location to the next, “harassment” at Yara includes
any form of unwelcome conduct towards another person, whether verbal, physical or visual, that:
    Has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment for that person
    Has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with or disrupting his or her work performance or
    Otherwise adversely affects his or her employment opportunities.
Yara will not tolerate discrimination or harassment and will address reports of such conduct promptly through its investigatory process. You are encouraged to report and address any suspected instances of discrimination or harassment that you witness or come to know about.
Remember, Yara will not tolerate retaliation against those who raise concerns, questions or complaints in good faith.
Internal Resources
    Ethics Hotline
    Line manager
    Human Resources Department
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
External Resources
    UN Global Compact
 
2.2 Ensuring Ethical Personal Conduct
We are expected to act in a professional and responsible manner towards our business partners, colleagues and others with whom we interact on Yara’s behalf. This includes exercising good judgment while traveling on Yara business.

All business travel must be intended to further Yara’s business interests. Travel-related expenses must be reasonable, prudent and in accordance with applicable policies. We are considered traveling “on Yara business” when our activities can be associated with, or are in furtherance of, Yara’s business. While on Yara business, we may not visit any establishment that would reflect negatively on Yara, including sexually oriented businesses or similar environments.
Additionally, we cannot buy sexual services for ourselves or others while on Yara business.

To ensure a safe and drug-free workplace, we may not be under the influence of intoxicating substances during
working hours, while on Yara premises or while conducting business on Yara’s behalf. “Intoxicating substances” include illegal drugs and alcohol. We must also refrain from using, or encouraging others to use, these substances in a manner
that can place the user, Yara or any of its business partners in jeopardy or an unfavorable light.

Limited amounts of alcohol may be served and consumed when local custom and/or the occasion makes it appropriate. We may never consume alcohol before or while operating machinery, driving a company vehicle or performing any other operation that is incompatible with the use of alcohol.
Internal Resources
    Code of Conduct
    Employment Contract
    Health and Safety Handbook
    Ethics Portal
    Ethics Hotline
    Line manager
    Human Resources Department
2.3 Promoting Workplace Health and Safety
We must all commit to making safe and healthy working conditions our highest priority. As such, we conduct our business in conformity with all applicable health and safety laws and regulations, as well as company policies and procedures. In addition, we must work to continuously improve our health and occupational safety systems, training and procedures so that they meet or exceed industry standards and local regulations.
Yara expects that everyone who visits our sites, including contractors and visitors, will abide by our health and safety policies and procedures. Contractors are expected to provide their workers sufficient and regular training on health and safety issues and to act in accordance with internationally recognized standards. Everyone on Yara premises is required to use appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE).
We should immediately report any accidents, incidents or near misses, as well as possible unsafe conditions, so proper action can be taken to resolve the issue and prevent future injury. To promote transparency, Yara will continue to report our health and safety statistics to the public.
Internal Resources
    Line Manager
    Health and safety statistics on Yara’s intranet
    Safety First videos
    Health and Safety Handbook
    HESQ Department
    Email - HESQ@yara.com
2.4 Participating in Learning and Development Training
At Yara we believe that participating in challenging tasks and defined projects is the best way to promote our career development. As employees, we can expect feedback on our performance and potential, competitive pay and benefits,
open communication and a performance culture based on our core values.

We are also entitled to develop our skills while working for Yara. This development may take many forms, and includes on-the-job training, along with a large variety of courses and programs. Our e-learning platform, Edvantage, holds many courses that are available to us. Those of us who may not have direct access to these online tools should familiarize themselves with available local training tools.
Annual development plans should be tailored to our individual needs and experience level. Yara provides
e-learning tools for managers on how to discuss and lead annual appraisals, and for employees on how to give and receive constructive feedback.
As an employee taking part in an appraisal process, you should:
    Come prepared with a list of your accomplishments for the year
    Think about your learning and development goals for the next year
    Think about what you can do to improve your existing work
    Be ready to receive constructive criticism As a manager, you should:
    Review the Edvantage training tool on annual appraisals
    Ensure you have enough time prepared to conduct the appraisal by setting aside at least 45 minutes per employee
    Think critically about the employee’s performance
    Discuss areas of growth and those needing improvement
    Ask the employee for feedback and encourage dialogue during your appraisal
    Speak to your local Human Resources Department if you have questions
Consultants and contractors who work for Yara on a long-term basis should also receive regular appraisals from their line managers. While this may not go through the same internal process, it will allow the manager to give important feedback to these persons.
Internal Resources
    Line Manager
    Human Resources Department
    Edvantage Training Tools
2.5 Protecting Personal Data
We must all be committed to protecting the privacy of our colleagues by safeguarding their personal data. We must also strive to protect the personal employee data entrusted to us by our customers and business partners. It is our responsibility and the responsibility of the company as a whole to protect this information from misuse, theft and improper or unlawful disclosure.
When collecting others’ personal data, we must always work to protect their privacy by only collecting and retaining it in accordance with applicable privacy laws. We must also work to protect and limit unauthorized access to personal data
by following internal controls procedures and preventing accidental disclosure. Unless otherwise authorized, only those of us working in business operations, customer care and human resources should be processing personal data.
Internal Resources
    Ethics Portal
    Ethics Hotline
    Code of Conduct
    Line Manager
    Human Resources Department
2.6 Supporting Our Communities
Yara views corporate citizenship as an important part of its overall strategic direction and has created an approach to make a substantial, positive impact on global issues.
By working on Yara’s behalf, we have each made a commitment to the improvement of the local communities in which we operate. Each of us must take into account the impact our plans and business activities may have on
communities. We will be open and engage constructively on any concerns about the impacts of our products, services or operations within our communities.
Personal Charitable Contributions
As individuals, we are encouraged to support local charitable causes, whether through support with cash and in-kind donations, volunteer time or technical assistance. However, it is crucial that we ensure that our personal contributions are not viewed as coming from or supported by Yara.
Corporate, National and Local Charitable Contributions
Yara provides three types of charitable donations - corporate, national and local.
On the corporate level, we support causes that relate to our core business; sustainable agriculture and environmental stewardship. Corporate contributions are decided by the executive management team on the basis of proposals from the Communications Department.
On a national level, and regardless of country, our charitable contributions mainly aim to position Yara as a responsible industry leader and to build public awareness about our operations in that country. National initiatives are decided by the national management, such as Country Managers, with support from the Communications and Human Resources Departments.
On a local level, Yara supports a wide variety of initiatives. Such initiatives may not only include causes related to our core business, but also social, educational or other causes that benefit the local communities in which we operate. Decisions on local contributions are made by the head of the local business unit.

The person or group making a contribution decision is responsible for following a review process to prevent the appearance of a conflict of interest (see section 4.6). They must also regularly manage and monitor contributions to ensure accountability and transparency. The person or group must ensure that donations are not used as, or seen by the public as, a form of bribery or corruption.
If you wish for Yara to provide a corporate, national or local contribution, you must:
    Ensure that contributions are not intended to influence official action or secure an improper business advantage
    Never use your position at Yara to influence the outcome of a request for a contribution
    Never be involved in the decision-making process about a contribution you recommend
    Inform the Communications Department of local charitable giving so that Yara can coordinate and highlight our contributions
More information on our corporate citizenship strategy and initiatives can be found on www.yara.com.
Internal Resources
    Sustainability page on the Yara Website
    Ethics Portal
    “Managing Conflicts of Interest” (Section 4.6)
    “Ensuring Proper Government Relations and Political Support” (Section 4.12)
    Line Manager
    Communications  Department
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
2.7 Ensuring Sustainable Development
Yara has adopted a global approach to corporate citizenship, with a strategy based on linking its core business to four major global challenges or shaping issues: Energy supply, climate change, food security and health concerns.
At the core of Yara’s overall strategy lies the notion of sustainable business development, seen as a way of conducting business activities based on sound management, business success, environmental sensitivity and active relations with key stakeholders.
As an organization, we strive to identify and measure the impacts our operations and products have on the local and global environment, including climate change. We will continue to monitor and set targets for reducing our environmental impacts.
Yara requires that we strive to protect the environment and challenge ourselves to create environmentally-friendly solutions in our own work. We must monitor, comply with and strive to exceed industry standards and applicable environmental laws and regulations. Business units
must accurately report environmental statistics to Yara headquarters, which is responsible for providing transparent and timely information to the general public.
As part of its commitment to sustainable business development, Yara also focuses on the principles of sustainable agriculture. This strategy involves promoting agricultural activities without causing irreversible damage to the ecosystem. This combines environmental stewardship with profitable farming and promoting the prosperity of local communities.
Yara also works to help growers improve agricultural productivity and use their land more effectively. In other areas, Yara is cutting emissions from its own manufacturing plants and making this technology commercially available by offering products to curb vehicle emissions and a wide range of other environmental solutions for the industry.
Internal Resources
    Health and Safety Policy
    Environmental Policy
    Line Manager
    HESQ Department
3.  Accountability
Responsible Business Practices
Responsible business practices provide the basis for trust and confidence between Yara and our business partners, shareholders, customers and communities. It is Yara’s goal to further the interests of all of these stakeholders. We must therefore carry out our business activities with integrity and hold ourselves accountable for our business conduct at all times.
3.1 Respecting Human Rights
Yara has made a commitment to respecting human rights throughout our operations, including in our supply chain. Our company supports the UN Global Compact and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. We work to strengthen and enforce the principles they set forth throughout our organization. In an effort to maintain transparency and accountability, Yara publicly displays our progress towards aligning our operations according to guidelines set forth  by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the UN Global Compact.

Yara expects all of its operations and business partners to comply with all labor and employment laws in effect in the countries where we operate, including laws pertaining to child and forced labor. We are committed to working with only responsible entities that embrace high standards of ethical behavior in this regard. We also expect our business partners to treat their employees and contractors fairly and with dignity and respect.
Yara condemns child labor and does not permit this conduct on any of its sites. Our company is also strongly committed to detecting and eliminating the use of child labor by our business partners, regardless of whether the
practice is permitted under local law. Within Yara, we follow the definition of child labor adopted by UNICEF and the International Labor Organization (ILO). Generally, we consider anyone working below the age of 16 to be a child laborer and will not permit younger persons to work in our operations.
If you have any concerns about human rights issues that arise in our operations or those of our business partners, you should seek guidance immediately.
Internal Resources
    Ethics Hotline
    Ethics Portal
    Code of Conduct
    Line Manager
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
External esources
    UN Declaration of Human Rights
    UN Global Compact
    UNICEF’s website
    Global Reporting Initiative
    ILO Minimum Age Convention No. 138
    NHO Human rights from the perspective of business and industry
3.2 Combating Corruption
We must never engage in any form of corruption, whether directly, or through an intermediary.
Since Yara is headquartered in Norway, we must all abide by Norwegian anti-corruption laws as well as the local laws in effect in the countries where we operate.

The Norwegian anti-corruption law is one of the strictest in the world and applies to all companies and individuals who act on behalf of Yara, regardless of their nationality and the country in which they are doing business. As a company,
Yara can be prosecuted for violations of the law, even if no individual is punished for the offense. Other consequences for Yara may include civil liability, loss of business and a damaged reputation. Individuals involved in acts of corruption may also be exposed to civil and criminal liability.
“Corruption” occurs when a person requests, receives or accepts an offer of an improper advantage or reward by virtue of his or her position, office or assignment. As a general
rule, an advantage is considered improper if it can influence, or be perceived to influence, the receiver’s ability to make sound, objective business decisions. Examples of “improper advantages” include cash, expensive gifts and travel. Other examples are more indirect, such as loans with low interest terms, study placements and job offers.
It is important to note that the provisions of Norwegian law affect both the person giving and the person receiving the improper advantage. In addition, there is no requirement that the advantage actually makes the recipient act in a certain way, just that it could be perceived to influence the recipient. In other words, that there is a link between the
improper advantage received and the recipient’s post or work.
Therefore, all of our business decisions must be made on the basis on an independent assessment, and must never be influenced by any private gain or benefit.
We must also be cautious to ensure that our business partners, such as our JV partners, suppliers, distributors  and contractors, never offer or receive any form of improper advantage when acting on Yara’s behalf.
There are many types of improper advantages that can fall under the scope of corruption. Please read the following sections of this Ethics Handbook for more information:
    “Avoiding Facilitation Payments” (Section 4.3)
    “Exchanging Business Gifts and Entertainment” (Section 4.4)
    “Following Antitrust and Competition Law” (Section 4.7)
    “Promoting Financial Accountability and Transparency”(Section 4.9)
    “Ensuring Proper Government Relations and Support” (Section 4.12)
Please contact the Legal Department or the Ethics and Compliance Department for more information if you have any questions or concerns.
3.3 Avoiding Facilitation Payments
A “facilitation payment” is often described as a payment made to a foreign official, government employee or member of a political party to encourage that person to expedite a routine governmental action, such as processing papers
and issuing permits. To be characterized as a facilitation payment, the payment has to be nominal compared to the local economy, and given for a routine service that the receiver is obligated to perform. In addition, the payment must not be intended to influence the outcome of the
official’s action, but only to ensure that it is done in a timely fashion. Such payments are also referred to as “grease payments”.
Internal Resources
    Ethics Hotline
    Ethics Portal
    Line Manager
    Legal Department
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
External Resources
    OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
    OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions
    The International Chamber of Commerce Rules of Conduct to Combat Extortion and Bribery
    Transparency International – Business Principles for Countering Bribery
    UN Anti-Corruption Conventions
    Norwegian Anti-Corruption Law
Yara views facilitation payments as a form of corruption, and has a strict policy to abolish them in our own operations as well as in the operation of our business partners. However, Yara understands that in some situations we may be asked to make facilitation payments in order to conduct critical business. These payments may also be necessary to ensure the health and safety of our colleagues or others.
We are expected to vigorously challenge all facilitation payments. We may only make such payments when allowed by local law and as a last resort, provided every other avenue has been explored to avoid the payment. If the issue is encountered, a contingency plan must be established to abolish all such payments in the future. Yara is willing to face the extra costs, time and effort to avoid making facilitation payments, and is committed to a strategy of absolute abolishment. We must document all facilitation payments, regardless of amount, and submit copies to the Ethics and Compliance Department.
To the extent possible, we must also ensure that our business partners do not make any facilitation payments on Yara’s behalf. We will encourage them to challenge and
document any requests for facilitation payments and ensure that they are trained to handle these situations if they occur. If they continue to pay improper facilitation payments, Yara will discontinue the relationship.
If you have any questions or concerns, you should seek guidance from the Legal Department or the Ethics and Compliance Department, review the Ethics Portal or call the Ethics Hotline.
Internal Resources
    Ethics Hotline
    Ethics Portal
    Line Manager
    Legal Department
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
External Resources
    UN Convention against Corruption
    OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
    OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions.
    The International Chamber of Commerce Rules of Conduct to Combat Extortion and Bribery
    Transparency International – Business Principles for Countering Bribery
    Norwegian Anti-Corruption Law
3.4 Exchanging Business Gifts and Entertainment
The exchange of gifts and entertainment with our customers and business partners can build goodwill and is a legitimate and valuable component of the way we do business.
However, some gifts and entertainment can create improper influence, or the appearance of improper influence. These business courtesies may even be seen as bribes that tarnish Yara’s reputation or break the law. We must therefore always exercise caution and follow Yara policies when giving or receiving gifts and entertainment.

While it is important to consider cultural and local norms, we should not let cultural or local traditions outweigh our ethical and responsible business judgment. We are expected to be aware of and to follow current, applicable rules regarding gifts, entertainment and travel wherever we operate.
Gifts
Giving and receiving small personal gifts is often part of local culture and dictated by tradition. In general, a gift is permitted without pre-approval from a line manager, provided it is not material or frequent, and it is permitted by local law. Whether a gift is “material or frequent” will be relative to local custom and the economy.
It is recommended that promotional or commemorative items, typically marked with the Yara logo, be given as gifts. Gifts without Yara logos that exceed a value of approximately USD 75 are always material and require pre-approval from your line manager. To ensure transparency, the approval should be in writing.
The following gifts are never acceptable:
    Gifts with no Yara logo that exceed local custom or the economy
    Gifts to parties involved in a tender or competitive bidding process
    Gifts that are “quid pro quo” (offered for something in return)
    Monetary gifts (cash, vouchers, giftcards, etc)
    Anything illegal, indecent or otherwise contrary to Yara’s commitment to mutual respect or that otherwise might adversely affect Yara’s reputation
    Gifts that you pay for personally to avoid having to report or seek approval for
In general, if refusing or returning a gift valued over USD  75 would be offensive or hurt the business relationship, we may accept the gift on a one-time basis. However, we must
make sure the business contact is aware of Yara’s policy. Also, we must share the gift with our colleagues if possible and appropriate.
Entertainment and Travel
Entertainment may take many forms and includes events such as meals, concerts, sporting events, hunting trips and golf outings. Offering and accepting entertainment can be a legitimate part of our business. However, doing so must
never create, or appear to create, improper influence between parties. Our business decisions must be based on impartiality and loyalty to our company, and not on personal loyalty due to
 the exchange of entertainment.
Follow these rules when giving or receiving entertainment in conjunction with Yara’s business:
    The entertainment must be approved by your line manager
    With the exception of meals or receptions, it must include an element of information or training, which can be formal or informal, depending on the situation
    It must not be excessive and should reflect Yara’s values, the business purpose and the occasion
    It must be avoided during a tendering or competitive bidding process (but a celebratory entertainment afterwards may be appropriate)
With the exception of local travel (air travel of less than four hours is generally deemed “local”) that forms part of a visit, we always pay our own travel and cannot pay for external parties, unless the non-local travel is:
1.  Part of a contractual and pre-arranged remuneration or incentive structure, or
2.  involves a necessary and legitimate provision of information, such as a plant visit, during ongoing contract negotiations.
The above general guidelines are not exhaustive. We must always use prudent judgment, and consider Yara’s reputation for integrity as the ultimate guideline.
Public Officials
We must exercise extra caution when offering gifts and entertainment to public officials. As a general rule, we should never offer public officials a gift or entertainment to obtain a license, permit or other benefit. It may, however, be legitimate to cover an official’s travel and other costs in certain situations. For example, we may pay for an official to visit a plant or laboratory for legitimate approval purposes or to attend a
Yara-sponsored conference or event. Before offering gifts and entertainment to public officials you should seek guidance from the Legal or Ethics and Compliance Department.
 Internal Resources
    Ethics Portal
    “Refusal of Gift” letter template regarding gifts and entertainment
    Line Manager
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
3.5 Working with Our Business Partners
Conducting our own operations in an ethical manner is not sufficient. As a global company, Yara is also judged  by the ethical conduct of our business partners, including our agents, distributors, JV partners and suppliers. We are
committed to being part of a responsible and ethical supply chain. We will continue to work on improving our systems and processes to achieve this objective.
Yara expects us to conduct adequate and comprehensive due diligence on any potential business partners and, as far as possible, we will track and monitor the performance of our current partners. We are expected to conduct an ethical assessment of the decisions we make with regards to these individuals and entities (for information about Ethical Due Diligence, see the Q&A in this section).
Yara is accountable for what we can reasonably influence within our supply chain. While we may not be able to control the way our business partners run their businesses, we can control whether or not we do or continue to do business with them. Therefore it is in the interest of Yara to encourage or help raise the standards of our business partners.
In addition, we must encourage our partners to read and understand our ethical standards by making them aware of our Code of Conduct. In particular:
Agents and Distributors
For Yara’s agents, or others that act on behalf of Yara, Yara standards should apply to the fullest extent possible. This can be accomplished by incorporating our Code of Conduct into the contractual relationship between Yara and the agent. There  are many ways of doing this, and the Legal Department or the Ethics and Compliance Department will be able to help and provide advice on appropriate wording.
Joint Ventures and Other Partnerships
In a joint venture or partnership over which Yara has control and management, Yara’s standards should apply to the fullest extent possible. If Yara does not have control, at least some minimum standards and audit rights should be negotiated and documented between the parties, preferably in the joint venture agreement. The Legal Department should be involved
when negotiating these agreements. For existing partnerships, such provisions should be considered as early as possible. At the latest, they should be negotiated upon any renegotiation  or renewal of the partnership.
Suppliers
Our suppliers must be made expressly aware of our Code  of Conduct and ethical commitments. This can be done in various ways. As a minimum, we should make the supplier or distributor aware of our Code of Conduct. We should also engage the suppliers in direct communication to convey our
ethical standards and commitments. We should actively work to change any unethical behavior by the supplier, and the supplier should be given reasonable opportunity to change
its practices. If the unethical behavior persists, we will discontinue the relationship.

If you have any concerns about the operations of our suppliers or other partners, you are encouraged to call the Ethics Hotline or use any of the other tools contained in the Ethics Portal. If you would like more information about Ethical Due Diligences or Impact Assessments, please visit the Ethics Portal or contact the Ethics and Compliance Department.
 
Sample text for contracts and purchase orders:
The [Supplier / Agent/ Distributor/ Customer] shall apply standards of business conduct in the conduct of its business which are consistent with Yara’s [Code of Conduct], details  of which are referenced at link as follows: www.yara.com, or a copy of which is available upon request from Yara to the [Supplier / Agent/ Distributor/ Customer]. Non-compliance by the [Supplier / Agent/ Distributor/ Customer] of the terms of the [Code of Conduct] shall entitle Yara to terminate the contract immediately without liability.
 Internal Resources
    Guidelines governing Joint Venture Operations
    Guidelines governing Supplies to Yara
    Ethics Hotline
    Ethics Portal
    Code of Conduct
    Line Manager
    Legal Department
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
External Resources
    Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Report No. 10 to the Storting (2008-2009)
    UN Declaration of Human Rights
    UN Global Compact
    ILO Minimum Age Convention No. 138
 
3.6 Managing Conflicts of Interest
It is likely that, over the course of doing business for Yara, we will face a conflict of interest situation. A “conflict of interest” arises when our private interests interfere or appear to interfere with Yara’s interests. Keep in mind that having
a conflict of interest is not necessarily a problem. It is only a problem if you do not disclose it and act upon it for personal gain (or someone else’s personal gain).
We must be careful to ensure that our professional actions or decisions are never (and never appear to be) improperly influenced by considerations of personal gain. To prevent conflicts of interest, you should:
    Interact with customers and business partners in a professional and impartial manner
    Always make decisions that are in the best interest of Yara and our customers and business partners
    Seek guidance from your line manager before making any decisions that may create a conflict of interest or when you have doubts
Above all, openness and transparency is key. If you feel you are facing an actual or potential conflict of interest, you should report it to your line manager, your Regional Compliance Coordinator or the Ethics and Compliance Department promptly. Line managers will document all
communications relating to an actual or potential conflict of interest in writing. You will be expected to excuse yourself from any decision-making process that relates to an actual or potential conflict of interest in which you are involved.
There are many forms of conflicts of interest. The following are some situations in which conflicts of interest commonly arise:
    Managing or recruiting a family member or close friend (a “family member” includes your spouse, partner, parents, children, siblings, cousins, nephews, nieces, aunts, uncles, grandparents, grandchildren and in-laws)
    Holding financial interests in business partners, competitors or customers
    Serving on the board of directors of a for-profit company without Yara’s approval
    Holding outside employment in which the interests of that job interfere with your ability to perform your job duties  for Yara
    Having family members who work or perform services for a competitor, customer or business partner
    Working on a deal involving a competitor, customer or business partner in which you, your family member or any other person with whom you have a close relationship has a direct or indirect financial interest
If you have any doubts as to whether a situation poses a conflict of interest, you should seek guidance from your line manager or from the Ethics and Compliance Department.
 Internal Resources
    Ethics Portal
    Ethics Training Video on Conflicts of Interest
    Ethics Hotline
    Line Manager
    Conflicts of Interest Template for Managers
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
3.7 Following Antitrust and Competition Law
Yara has a strict policy of conducting business in full compliance with all applicable antitrust rules and regulations. “Competition” or “antitrust” laws aim to achieve fair competition in the day-to-day business dealings between companies and individuals. It is our responsibility to familiarize ourselves with the guidelines these laws set forth and to conduct our daily business activities in full compliance with them. If you have any questions about the content
or scope of these laws, consult your line manager or the Legal Department for clarification. A lack of knowledge will not be considered an acceptable excuse to the competition authorities.
To ensure that you are following antitrust and competition law, be sure to:
    Stay vigilant when competitors may be speaking about internal issues; if such a conversation arises, remove yourself from it immediately and report the matter to your line manager and the Legal Department
    Never engage in any improper communications, whether written, electronic or oral
    Familiarize yourself with Yara’s Dawn Raid manual and other procedures relevant to your local market
Please refer to your country’s Competition Compliance Manual and the other resources listed at the end of this section for further information. If your country has not issued its own Competition Compliance Manual, please contact
the Legal Department for advice on available guidance and resources.
Vertical Restraints
Vertical restraints are a type of restraint of trade  arrangement between firms operating in different levels of the manufacturing or distribution chain. These agreements generally restrict the conditions under which such firms may purchase, sell or resell products and services. Some common examples of vertical restraints include:

    Resale price maintenance – Prescribing minimum prices at which a distributor can resell a purchased product
    Territorial restrictions – Limiting the geographic territory in which a distributor may resell what it has purchased
    Exclusive dealing – Inducing a buyer to deal only in one seller’s products
    Tying contracts or bundling – Making the availability of one product dependent upon the purchase of other products or services
These are only examples. While some forms of exclusivity are permitted, many forms of vertical restraints are prohibited.
This is a complex area of law and you should always consult with the Legal Department before imposing or accepting any forms of vertical restraints.
Collusion
Collusion is an agreement that is reached between two or more competitors to limit competition in order to gain an unfair advantage. Oftentimes, it is an agreement among firms, also known as “cartels”, to divide the market, set prices or limit production. Some examples include:
    Price fixing and pricing strategies – Selling the same products or services at the same price and on similar conditions
    Volume of sales or production – Producing or selling only a certain (limited) amount of product in the market
    Dividing territories – Agreeing to stay out of one another’s markets to reduce competition in the agreed- upon territories or towards certain categories of customers
    Bid rigging – Participating in a form of fraud by which the parties present fake bids at an auction
Collusion is not limited to direct communication or agreements. Simply listening in on other competitors’
discussions can amount to having taken part in illegal collusion. However, gathering and using market information from public sources, such as the media or market research providers, is not collusion. This is true even when it relates to competitors.
You must ensure that you do not engage in collusion, whether express or implied. Even informally discussing any of the above matters is in violation of competition laws. Yara can be heavily fined as a result of this action, and individuals involved can also face fines and jail time.
Dominant Position
Yara has a dominant market share in some of the countries in which we operate. When this is the case, there are stricter rules we must follow regarding avoiding activities such
as fidelity rebates and predatory pricing. If you work in a market in which Yara is the dominant player and your job involves sales, marketing or procurement activities, you must familiarize yourself with these rules.
Mergers and Acquisitions
The Legal Department must always be involved if you are dealing with mergers and acquisitions or joint ventures in order to prevent any uncompetitive practices.
Internal Resources
    Line Manager
    Legal Department
    European Competition Compliance Manual
    United States Antitrust Compliance Guidelines
    Local Competition Compliance Manuals
    Dawn Raid information in Compliance Manuals
    Ethics Videos on Collusion and Vertical Restraints
3.8 Protecting Company Assets
Our company, business partners and shareholders count on us to protect Yara’s assets. We are accountable for safeguarding these assets at all times, including physical property (such as supplies, products, equipment and funds) and intellectual property.
Confidential Information
We all must work to prevent unauthorized internal and external persons from gaining access to Yara’s confidential information. In general, “confidential information” includes information that is not known to the public. Examples are business plans, marketing and sales programs and data, product development plans, mergers and acquisitions information, and design and engineering specifications.
The disclosure of such information could harm Yara’s business or reputation. Therefore, we must comply with the requirements to maintain the confidential nature of all such information, except when disclosure is authorized or required by law.
To prevent unauthorized persons from having access to internal Yara information:
    Be aware of where you are and who may be able to hear you
    Be careful when discussing it in public places, such as on planes, in trains or in elevators
    Maintain adequate document control
    Understand that forwarding emails can be a breach of confidentiality
We also have an obligation to protect the confidential information entrusted to us by our customers, and business partners. You must never share partner or customer information externally unless authorized or required to do so by law.
Intellectual Property
Yara’s intellectual property (IP) is one of our most valuable assets. Yara IP consists of any business ideas or information that Yara owns, such as unique products or methodologies and proprietary information. This includes our trade secrets, know-how, patents, trademarks and materials protected by copyright, Be advised that Yara retains exclusive ownership  of any intellectual property conceived or developed during our employment, when this activity is done in connection with or relating to work done with Yara.
We must also respect the IP rights of Yara and others. This means we must comply with all applicable laws that govern Yara’s IP, as well as that of our business partners. In addition, we must respect the rights associated with the use of free software or shareware.
Whether we are conducting business, on business travel or entertaining our business partners, we have an obligation to exercise prudence when using Yara’s funds. We must use these funds responsibly and for business purposes only. Each of us is responsible to ensure that Yara’s funds are accounted for and monitored to avoid misuse and theft.
For more information, please read the “Promoting Financial Accountability and Transparency” (Section 4.9).
Internal Resources
    Line Manager
    IT Department
    Legal Department
    Finance Department
    “Promoting Financial Accountability and Transparency” (section 4.9)
    Ethics Portal
3.9 Promoting Financial Accountability and Transparency
As an industry leader and publicly listed company, Yara has a responsibility to communicate promptly, completely and accurately with our stakeholders, as well as government
regulators and the general public. Our shareholders, business partners, government regulators and the public depend on our public disclosures to make important financial decisions. The integrity of Yara’s financial records is a critical component of these disclosures, and their integrity and accuracy plays
a large role in maintaining the confidence and trust these parties place in us.
We are all responsible for ensuring that the financial reports and submissions we file are complete, fair, accurate, timely and understandable. This means we must accurately prepare all business records (invoices, bills, travel and entertainment expense reports, payrolls, service records, reports, etc.).
In addition, our books and records must reflect accurately and completely all business transactions in which we have
engaged. None of us may create or participate in the creation of records that are misleading, such as undisclosed or unrecorded revenue, expenses, assets or liabilities.
Depending on our position at Yara, we may be called upon to provide necessary information to ensure that Yara’s public reports are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable.
We must cooperate fully when asked. In addition, we must comply with the rules of the Oslo Børs and the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance, regardless of which office we may be working from.
We expect our business partners to share our dedication to financial transparency. We encourage these partners  to disclose information regarding their business activities,
structure, financial situation and performance in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and prevailing industry practices.
We should immediately report any case of suspected or actual financial or operational misrepresentation or
impropriety. Every concern, question and complaint will be taken seriously and handled promptly, confidentially and professionally. Keep in mind that no retaliation will be taken against us for raising a concern, question or complaint if done in good faith.
Internal Resources
    Line Manager
    Finance Department
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
    Ethics Portal
External Resources
    Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance
 3.10   Insider Trading

 
Since we work for a publically listed company, we cannot buy or sell Yara’s stock based on material, non-publically disclosed information. In addition, we may not buy or sell any other company’s stock on the basis of such information that we obtain through our work or position with Yara. These activities are in violation of insider trading legislation.

Identifying what qualifies as “material, non-publically disclosed information” can be difficult. In general, information is material if it would be considered important by a reasonable      investor in determining whether to buy, hold or sell the stock of the company to which the information relates. Material
non-publically disclosed information can be either positive or negative, and may include:

    Projections of future earnings or losses

    News of a pending or proposed merger

    News of a significant sale of assets

    Declaration of a stock split or offering of additional securities

    Changes in executive management

    Significant new products or discoveries

If you have any questions as to whether the information you possess qualifies as inside information, you should consult the Investor Relations Department or the Legal Department.

Insider trading laws also dictate that we may not engage in “tipping”. or provide inside information to someone for our personal benefit or for that person’s benefit. To avoid tipping, do not disclose any inside information to anyone outside of Yara, including your family members or friends. You should also refrain from discussing this information with colleagues who do not have a business need to know it.

Engaging in insider trading and tipping violates not only company policy, but also the securities laws of many countries in which we operate. Violations of these laws can carry civil and/or criminal penalties for those involved.
Internal Resources
    Line Manager
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
    Investor Relations Department
    Ethics Portal
 3.11   Communicating about Yara to the Public
It is vital that Yara speak to the public with consistency and authority. Therefore, only authorized spokespersons and those to whom they designate spokesperson authority may speak to the media or investment analysts on behalf of Yara. These include:

    Members of the Executive Management Team

    The Vice President of Corporate Communications

    Investor Relations on financial matters

    Plant Managers, Regional Managers, Country Managers and other designated experts (on matters related to their area of responsibility)

All managers who have authority to speak to the media must be trained regularly.
Questions of a particularly delicate, strategic or reputation- related nature should be referred to or discussed with management in the Communications Department in advance. All communication with investment analysts must be coordinated by Investor Relations. If you are not an assigned spokesperson, it is always acceptable to decline commenting to the media. Never agree to talk off the record.
 


Internal Resources
    Global Communications Policy
    Crisis Handbook - Getting a Grip on Crisis Communications (can be downloaded from the Ethics Portal)
    Line Manager
    24/7 Communications Department contact line at
+47 24 15 70 70
3.12    Ensuring Proper Government Relations and Political Support
Lobbying
Yara understands the importance of making its position known on matters that affect our customers, shareholders and local communities in a manner that is in accordance with our values. Yara has both a right and a responsibility to employ lobbyists to act on behalf of issues that affect our stakeholders. However, lobbyists need to follow strict guidelines and only certain functions within Yara that have specific approval from senior management may conduct lobbying efforts. If you believe a particular issue is not being addressed, please contact your line manager, who will contact the appropriate person in the Communications Department on your behalf.
We can also use external lobbyists to help support the company’s causes, as long as the lobbyists disclose that they represent Yara to the government officials, governing bodies or organizations with which they interact. Each of us and the external lobbyists we retain must comply with all applicable laws and regulations that govern lobbying activities.
Political Contributions
We are encouraged to voluntarily exercise our individual right to participate in the political process. However, our personal political activities must be conducted on our own time, and with our own resources.
We also must ensure that our personal political pursuits and contributions do not create potential conflicts of interest and are in compliance with all applicable laws governing
political activities and contributions. We may never contribute company funds or assets directly to any political party, nor
to any individual who holds or is seeking public office. In addition, we may not communicate with public officials on policy matters or engage in political activities on Yara’s behalf except in accordance with local law, applicable regional policy and in coordination with Yara’s Communications Department.
If you have any questions, please contact your line manager or the Legal Department.
 Internal Resources
    Code of Conduct
    Line Manager
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Legal Department
    Ethics and Compliance Department
3.13    Interacting with our Customers Fairly and Responsibly
We build strong and lasting customer relationships by providing high-quality products and services. We are accountable for the needs of our customers and partners, and we take our commitments to them seriously. We are expected to continuously work to minimize any risks to public safety resulting from our products and operations.
In addition, we are responsible for ensuring that the terms  of business with our customers are accurate and truthful. This includes ensuring that our labelling and specifications on our products and services are clear and fair. It also means making certain we provide relevant product and safety information to our customers and end users.
The customer is at the core of our business, and we put strong emphasis on acknowledging and resolving customer complaints and comments within a defined timescale. We also value and solicit customer feedback when developing new products and applications, as well as when reviewing customer policies and practices. We take our after-sales obligations seriously and ensure that they will be met.
The advertising and marketing materials and other documents we provide to current or prospective customers must always be clear, truthful, accurate and in full compliance with applicable laws. All of our marketing, promotional and advertising pursuits must be governed by our sense of integrity. Although different cultural issues may affect our marketing and sales strategies, these strategies must always be in accordance with the law.
Our sales strategy must also be conducted in a responsible manner. We ensure that no form of bribery or corruption
is used in our business, and we follow and abide by Yara’s gifts and entertainment policy when dealing with customers. For more information, see “Exchanging Business Gifts and Entertainment” (Section 4.4).
We also expect our distributors to uphold these standards, and we require them to act in an honest and appropriate manner toward their customers. Our goal is that throughout Yara’s supply chain, the end user will not only receive a superior product, but also gain a positive view of Yara.
 Internal Resources
    Line Manager
    Regional Compliance Coordinators
    Ethics and Compliance Department
4.  Conclusion
 5. Conclusion
5. Conclusion
The purpose of this handbook is not only to set forth and explain the behaviors expected of us, but also to give us resources we can use to make the right decisions. Working ethically should not require additional hours or harder work. It should be ingrained in the way we all do business.
Yara has operations and offices in more than 50 countries around the world. While cultural influences can affect the way we make decisions, we are expected to follow the stricter standard when doing so. This may be the local or international law, or Code of Conduct or the Ethics Handbook.
If you need help to make the right decision, please use the resources listed in this Ethics Handbook.
If you have any additional question or comments, please do not hesitate to contact the Ethics and Compliance Department at ethics@yara.com.
This handbook is provided as an internal tool for the employees of Yara International ASA and does not create any obligation, legal or otherwise, between Yara International ASA and any third party.
Yara International ASA Drammensveien  131
N-0277 Oslo
Norway Tel:+47 24 15 70 00
Fax:+47 24 15 70 01
ethics@yara.com
www.yara.com
Copyright © Yara International ASA January 2015
Yasref
Region: Asia-Pacific Group
Country: Saudi Arabia
Type of Organisation: Chemistry - Industry
Type of Document: Combined

CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS & CONDUCT
 1. OVERVIEW
It is the Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Limited’s (“YASREF” or “the Company”) policy to apply and to conduct all its activities in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with the Kingdom’s laws and regulations. Adherence to this Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (“the Code”) is critical for the Company’s success in meeting its business objectives, and must be used as a guide for all our actions.
Once  formally  issued,  th e  Compan y’s  Of f icers,  Em p loye e s,  con tract o rs  and   individuals seconded to the Company are required to comply with this Code. Individuals seconded to the Company will also be required to comply with their employers’ code of business ethics and conduct in addition to this Code.  In case of a conflict, seconded Employees must apply the strictest and most stringent interpretation of the two codes.
In addition to potential civil and criminal liability, violations of this Code may result in disciplinary action up to and including dismissal from the Company, or termination of other business relationship.
2.  DEFINITIONS
    Company Property: includes developed and undeveloped Company- owned or controlled land, buildings, parking lots, vehicles, Company housing, and recreation areas. This also includes intangible or intellectual property such as patents, copyrights and confidential information, etc.
    Employees: includes officers, full time, part time and temporary employees, consultants, employees of contractors (Supplemental Manpower Personnel) of the Company and individuals seconded by the shareholders or otherwise.
    Family Members: includes Employee’s parents, spouses and children.
    Officers: refers to YASREF Employees who are Department Managers and above.
    Nominal Gifts: are gifts or entertainment valued at US$ 100 or less, provided that total value of gifts received or given to the same individual or organization does not exceed US$ 200 in a calendar year (i.e. from January 1st to December 31th). These include gifts of a general nature having a low value, including, without limitation such items as pens, caps, shirts, and coffee mugs. In addition, Nominal Gifts include the acceptance of reasonable business entertainment and business meals  in line with
customary business practices. The following items are examples of items that are considered as customary business practices and that may be accepted by an Employee:
o   Modest refreshments (such as coffee and donuts), greeting cards, plaques and other items of little intrinsic value; and
o   Discounts available to the public or to all YASREF Employees and rewards or prizes connected to competitions open to the general public.
NOTE:
In rare circumstances, there may be a valid business reason for an Employee to exceed the Nominal Gift limit delineated above. In such cases a waiver may be obtained from the Employee’s Vice President or the Company President & CEO: (i) before incurring such expenses if it is known in advance that the Nominal Gift limits will be exceeded; or (ii) immediately upon realization that the Nominal Gift limits have been exceeded. Such waivers shall only be valid for a maximum of one year. Internal Audit will be responsible for auditing all waivers granted for reasonableness.
    Significant Financial Interest: As a minimum standard, a “Significant” Financial Interest is a direct or indirect aggregate interest of an Employee and/or Family Members, where the:
o   Interest held in a publicly traded company is more than one percent (1%) of any class of its outstanding securities; or
o   Interest held in a partnership or association is more than ten percent (10%) of its total capital; or
o   Interest held in or dividend received from any enterprise (other than two listed above) is more than five percent (5%) of the total assets or gross annual income of such enterprise.
In applying the criteria to determine whether a financial interest is “Significant,” total assets and gross income are to be  evaluated separately. For example, if an Employee owns one thousand (1,000) shares of a competitor’s stock, the minimum standard would be met if the value of the shares exceeds five percent (5%) of the enterprises’ total assets, even though the dividends from the shares are less than five percent (5%) of the enterprises’ gross income.   The minimum standard
also would be met if the dividends from the shares are more than five percent (5%) of the enterprise’s gross income, even though the value of the shares is less than five percent (5%) of the enterprise’s total assets.
    Supplier(s): applies to suppliers, contractors, manufacturers, vendors or any entity having a business relationship to provide goods or services to the Company.
3.  RESPONSIBILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Every Employee of the Company is responsible for his or her own behavior, and for ensuring that he or she conducts himself or herself honestly and in good faith, at all times in the best interests of, and in a manner that reflects positively on the Company and its stakeholders.

YASREF’s business whether domestic or international, must be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Be aware of the legal requirements that apply to your job and follow those laws strictly. YASREF will not tolerate illegal activity conducted for personal gain or on the Company’s behalf.
Lack of knowledge of the law will not excuse Employee’s non-compliance with this Code. If the Employee has any questions or requires assistance with legal matters, he should contact his/her immediate supervisor.
Employees will be provided with a copy of this Code and will be required to acknowledge, through their signature, their understanding and acceptance of compliance as a term of employment. Any Employee who violates the Code may face disciplinary action up to and including termination of their employment for just cause with YASREF without notice or payment in lieu of notice. Each Employee is expected to review this Code at least every two (2) years to satisfy themselves that they have adhered to the stated principles and standards and must sign an Ethics Compliance Form as confirmation of said compliance in accordance with Appendix B attached.
In addition to the above, an Employee’s personal responsibilities include, without limitation:
    Complying with laws and regulations of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
    Complying with all applicable Company policies & procedures;
    Maintaining appropriate ethical behavior;
    Reporting any actual or suspected misconduct, illegal activity, fraud, abuse of Company assets, or other violations of this Code to the General Auditor Hotline at generalauditor.hotline@yasref.com (please refer to Procedure for Internal Audit Hotline for details); and
    Completing an Ethics Compliance Form once every two (2) years.
4.  COMMITMENT TO STAKEHOLDERS
The Company’s commitment to the highest ethical standards flows naturally from the Company’s responsibilities to its shareholders, regulatory entities, customers, families, vendors, suppliers and the communities wherein it’s Employees live and work.
4.1 Employees
YASREF believes in treating its Employees with fairness, dignity and respect. Employees will benefit from just practices included in their recruitment, compensation, professional development, and promotion. They will work within safe and healthy working conditions. YASREF values the integration of  the unique attributes and talents of a diverse workforce which contributes to more creativity and better solutions to problems.
Employees are given the freedom to express themselves and are expected to promptly report any suspected or actual violations of this Code.

4.2 Investors
YASREF will strive to provide excellent financial returns to the shareholders and act in the best interests of those who directly and indirectly invest in the Company.
4.3 Regulatory Entities
All Employees are required to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
4.4 Customers
YASREF staff will provide quality products, superior services, and innovative solutions, and deal with customers in a straightforward and honest manner.
4.5 Families
YASREF Employees will operate in a healthy environment which encourages a balance between work and family.
4.6 Communities
YASREF Employees will contribute to the overall quality of life wherever they operate, and will use resources responsibly to preserve the environment. YASREF remains committed to contribute to civic, charitable and other noteworthy community activities.
4.7 Vendors and Suppliers
YASREF Employees will choose suppliers objectively, based on merit and will ensure honesty in all business dealings with them. Procurement decisions will be made on the basis of fairness and merit.
5.  PROMOTING A POSITIVE AND HARASSMENT-FREE WORK ENVIRONMENT
Harassment may occur when the words, actions, or behavior of members of a work group create an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment. This type of harassment can be destructive to a positive work environment and shall not be tolerated.
YASREF will not tolerate abusive language, physical violence, or the use or threat of any physical violence by or to the Company’s Employees or stakeholders.
Employees are expected to cooperate fully with the Company in its investigation of complaints. Retaliation or taking adverse action against anyone acting in good faith that lodges a complaint or helps to resolve a conduct concern shall not be tolerated.
5.1 Safety and Health
The Company shall strictly enforce laws and regulations designed to promote a safe and a healthy workplace. Employees should immediately report any unsafe or hazardous materials or conditions, injuries, and accidents connected with the Company’s business and any activity that compromises Company security. Employees who violate these laws, regulations or Company safety policies and procedures may, in addition to any potential civil and criminal liability, be terminated.
Firearms and other weapons are strictly prohibited on Company Property, except if they are in the possession of authorized Employees or contractors engaged to provide security for the Company.
5.2 Environment
The Company is committed to promoting environmental stewardship. Employees shall understand and comply with the environmental laws and regulations that affect the Company’s business activities, as well as, related Company policies and procedures. Contractors, suppliers, and others who engage in YASREF business shall also follow applicable laws and regulations.
5.3 Alcohol and Drug Use
All the Employees are expected to comply with the Kingdom’s laws related to use or possession of alcohol and illegal drugs. The misuse of prescribed medical drugs, or the use, possession, distribution or sale of alcohol, illicit or un- prescribed controlled drugs on YASREF premises, is strictly prohibited and will lead to termination and legal action as per relevant laws.
6.  BUILDING AND MAINTAINING RELATIONSHIPS
The Company respects the rights of Employees to manage their personal affairs and investments, and does not wish to intrude upon their personal lives. At the same time, Employees shall avoid any situation that may involve a conflict between their personal interests and the interests of the Company. As in all other facets of their duties, Employees’ dealings with customers, suppliers, contractors, competitors, or any person doing, or seeking to do business with the Company, shall be in the best interest of the Company to the exclusion of considerations of personal preference or advantage.
6.1 Conflicts of Interest
A “conflict of interest” occurs when an Employee’s private interests interfere in any way with the interests of the Company. Examples of such conflicts could include, but are not limited to:
    An Employee taking on outside work, or making financial investments that make it difficult for him or her to perform his or her work at the Company objectively and effectively; or
    If Employees or their Family Members receive personal benefits as a result of an Employee’s position in the Company, which benefits other Employees in the same or similar position are not receiving.
In addition to the above types of possible conflicts, other activities which may involve conflicts of interests and which Employees are prohibited from engaging in, include, without limitation the following:
    Employees working for suppliers that do, or seek to do business with the Company (other than individuals on a secondement from the shareholders of YASREF), or working with a competitor of the Company;
    Holding Significant Financial Interests (as defined in Definitions Section-2 of this Code) in an enterprise that does or seeks to do business with the Company or is a competitor of the Company;
    Employment or Significant Financial Interests (as defined in Definitions Section-2 of this Code) in an outside businesses which are suppliers or sub-contractors to suppliers doing business with the Company;
    Having a personal interest in a transaction involving the Company or a customer, business partner or supplier of the Company
Family Members of Employees may work for, or have Financial Interests (in line with the limits prescribed under Significant Financial Interests in Definitions Section) in businesses, whether or not they do or seek to do business with the Company, but such interests are subject to prompt disclosure and approval in writing by the Company as provided in the Situations Requiring Written Disclosure and Management Approval Section (6.2).
YASREF views it as a conflict of interest and improper business practice for any former YASREF Employees to utilize or disseminate any confidential or proprietary business, technical, or other information obtained whilst in the employment of YASREF, to influence any YASREF existing or proposed commercial transactions for the purpose of gaining a personal commercial (or other) advantage, or benefiting any third party, or to otherwise compromise YASREF in any way, whether intentionally or not. Accordingly, former YASREF Officers, shall not accept offers for employment, engage as consultants, or acquire Significant Financial Interests in the business of suppliers, during a cooling off period of two (2) years from the date of termination, for whatever reason, from YASREF, without the prior formal approval of the Human Resources Department of YASREF.
Actions that might involve a conflict of interest, or the appearance of one, shall be fully disclosed in writing to the affected Employee’s supervisor for review and
approval before the potential conflict occurs if possible and if unknown ahead of time, immediately thereafter. Some situations that require written disclosure and management approval are discussed below. Employees who knowingly fail to disclose conflicts are subject to disciplinary action, including dismissal in line with YASREF Internal Work Rules.
6.2 Situations Requiring Written Disclosure and Management Approval
In some cases, Employees’ duties at the Company may conflict with their outside interests. Upon being employed by the Company, the newly hired Employees will provide a written disclosure of interests held by them and their Family Members, for Human Resources Department’s review and approval.
In addition, the following events also require written disclosure and Human Resources Department’s review and approval in writing, to avoid actual or apparent conflicts of interest:
    Employees or their Family Members working for suppliers of the Company (other than individuals on a secondement from the shareholders of YASREF);
    Ownership by the Employee or, to the best of the Employee’s knowledge, by a Family Member of a Significant Financial Interest or taking a position in any outside enterprise that does or seeks to do business with, or is a competitor of the Company;
    Serving as a director, officer, partner, consultant to, or in a managerial position with, or employment in a technical capacity by any outside enterprise which does, or is seeking to do business with, or is a competitor of the Company. Exempted from this requirement are Seconded Employees appointed by one of the shareholders in its organizations, subsidiaries and/or affiliates;
    Acting as a broker, finder, go-between or otherwise for the benefit of a third party in transactions involving or potentially involving the Company, or its interests;
    Any other arrangement or circumstance, including family or personal relationships, which might compromise the Employee’s ability to act in the best interest of the Company;
    Transfer of an Employee to a supervisory position within the Company, to Purchasing or Contracting, or any other position that has the potential for a conflict of interest; and
    If none of the preceding events intervene, at least once every two (2) years.
The above situations may, or may not present a conflict, but shall be carefully reviewed and approved. For example, if the Employee’s job includes responsibilities over a customer, supplier or contractor, it may be necessary to reassign job duties or authorities to eliminate the potential for a conflict  of interest.
Following management’s review, approval or disapproval of the situation shall be documented in writing.
If a conflict of interest is considered to be unacceptable, management shall work with the Employee to promptly resolve the matter.
The key consideration in reviewing potential conflicts is whether the Employee’s duties towards the Company, or those of his or her subordinates, require making decisions that could be influenced by the interest reported. Other considerations include, but are not limited to, whether or not:
    The  outside  interest  does  business  or  competes  with  the  Employee’s business, function or site in the Company;
    The Employee has an active, managerial or decision making role in the outside interest;
    The Employee has access to Company information potentially useful or advantageous to the outside interest;
    Public disclosure of the facts would embarrass or prejudice the Company.
6.3 Outside Work by Employees
The Company’s Employees may wish to take on additional part-time work with organizations that are not the Company’s competitors, customers or suppliers; or, they may wish to accept a voluntary, elected or appointed position with an entity. Such work does not in itself constitute a conflict of interest. Board of Director approval shall be required for an Employee to serve as an employee, partner, officer, director, or on a committee of an outside organization (other than for one of the Shareholders) where:(i) the organization is engaged in a commercial activity and the appointment or election is related to or associated with the employee’s responsibilities with the Company or (ii) the outside organization is a bank or financial institution.
However, the second job or position shall be strictly separated from the Employee’s job at the Company as represented below:
    Outside work shall not be done on Company’s time, and shall not involve the use of Company resources, such as, without limitation computers, telephones, or duplicating equipment;
    The Employee shall not attempt to sell products or services from the outside work to the Company; and
    Performance of the outside work shall not interfere with, or prevent the Employee from devoting the time and effort needed to satisfactorily fulfill the Employee’s primary duties and obligations as a Company Employee.
6.4 Soliciting Suppliers, Contractors, and Local Merchants
Employees shall not request or accept donations from suppliers, contractors or local merchants to help pay for Employee social functions or sporting events. Solicitations of cash, merchandise, or services are not allowed because they may be perceived to create obligations in order to keep, increase, or obtain Company business. YASREF wants all vendors and suppliers to understand that their business relationship with the Company is based totally on their ability to competitively and safely meet YASREF business needs.
6.5 Business Courtesies, Inducements, Gifts, Favors, and Entertainment
Business gifts and entertainment are customary courtesies designed to build goodwill among business partners. These courtesies include items of Nominal value such as meals and beverages, tickets to sporting or cultural events, and other merchandise or services. It is recognized that business gifts may play a role in business relationships. However, a problem may arise when such courtesies compromise, or appear to compromise, the ability of YASREF Employees to make objective and fair business decisions.
6.6 Receiving Gifts, Favors, and Entertainment
Employees shall neither seek, nor accept for themselves or others any gifts, favors, or entertainment without a legitimate business purpose, nor seek  or accept loans (other than conventional loans at market rates from lending institutions) from any person or business organization that does or seeks to do business with, or is a competitor of, the Company.  In application of this policy:
    Employees may accept for themselves and Family Members common courtesies usually associated with customary business practices. These include Nominal Gifts (please refer to Definition section for definition of Nominal Gifts and related value limits) of a general nature having a low value.
In  addition,  Nominal  Gifts  would  include  the  acceptance  of  reasonable business entertainment and business-related meals;
    An  especially  strict  standard  is  expected  with  respect  to  gifts,  services, discounts, entertainment, or considerations of any kind from suppliers;
    It is never permissible to accept a gift in cash or cash equivalents (e.g., stocks or other forms of marketable securities) of any amount.
In certain situations, refusal of gifts with a value substantially in excess of customary business practices can result in awkward business situations. Employees are required to promptly report to their supervisor the offer of any substantial gift (even if not accepted) from any individual or organization doing or seeking to do business with the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates. In each case, the supervisor shall contact the Human Resources Department for guidance and/or disclosure.
Employees are also required to promptly report to their supervisor the acceptance of any gift from any individual or organization doing or seeking to do business with the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates when the gift is not considered a Nominal Gift. Any question of whether a gift received by or offered to the Employee or Family Member violates this Code must be likewise reported for a decision or guidance by the Human Resources Department.
Examples of items to be reported include, but are not limited to the following:
    Airplane tickets;
    Vacations paid in part or in whole;
    Entertainment, other than reasonable business entertainment as defined under Nominal Gifts in Definitions Section (2) of this Code;
    Gifts having significant value - rugs, home furnishings, jewelry and clothing are a few obvious examples of prohibited gifts;
    Using facilities such as apartments, automobiles, or offices of a supplier or businessman who is doing or seeking to do business with the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates. Exempted are offices associated with an execution and/or administration of contracts with the Company;
    Interest-free or low-interest loans which are not available to all YASREF Employees in ordinary course of business and may influence an Employee’s decision related to the organization offering such loans;
    Personal services of servants; and
    Suppliers paying bills for the Employee or Family Member.
6.7 Giving Gifts, Favors, and Entertainment
Gifts, favors and entertainment may be given to others at the Company’s expense only if they meet all the following criteria:
    Consistent with Company policy on Nominal Gifts and customary business practices;
    Not excessive in value and cannot be construed as a bribe or pay-off;
    Not in violation of applicable laws or ethical standards; and
    Public  disclosure of  the  facts  would  not  embarrass  or  undermine  the Company or the Employee.
Accounting records and supporting documentation reflecting gifts, favors, and entertainment to others shall be accurately stated, including appropriate, clear, and descriptive text. Departments shall establish policies and procedures for approval in advance of gifts, favors, or entertainment of unusual monetary value.
Strict rules apply when YASREF Employees do business with governmental agencies and officials. Because of the sensitive nature of these relationships, YASREF Employees shall familiarize themselves and comply with this Code, all relevant laws as well as Company policies before offering gifts or hospitality to government Employees.
6.8 Bribes and Kickbacks
It is unacceptable to directly or indirectly offer, pay, solicit, or accept bribes or kickbacks in any form. A bribe could be a payment, an offer, or a promise of anything of value (regardless of the amount). Neither the Company, nor anyone representing or acting for it shall bribe a government official or private individual in order to retain business, obtain an improper business advantage or for any other reason. A “government official” is an Employee of a government and includes members of the armed forces, and members of royal families engaged in commercial activities. Also included are officials of public international organizations such as the World Bank.
We must comply with the anti-bribery and corruption laws of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and of other countries where YASREF: (i) employs their citizens/residents; and (ii) has business relationships with organizations belonging to these countries. For example, The Bribery Act 2010 of the United Kingdom and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of the United States may have an impact on YASREF operations. Non-compliance with such anti-bribery and corruption laws may result in disciplinary action, dismissal, legal proceedings and possibly imprisonment. Failure to act on suspicions of bribery and corruption could result in liability for both Employees and our Company.
6.9 Commissions, Rebates, Discounts, Credits, and Allowances
Sales-related commissions, rebates, discounts, credits, and allowances are customary business incentives. However, careful attention is needed to avoid illegal or unethical payments and to ensure compliance with various currency exchange controls and tax regulations. Such business-incentive payments shall be reasonable in value, competitively justified, properly documented, and made to the business entity to which the original sales agreement or invoice was made or issued. These payments shall not be made to individual officers, employees, or agents of that entity or to a related business entity. Such payments shall be made only in the country in which the entity receiving the payment has made the purchase or performed the service for which the payment is earned.
6.10    Fees and Honorariums
With management’s prior written approval, Employees are allowed to serve as directors of another company, give lectures, conduct seminars, or publish articles and books. Any fees, honorariums or reimbursements shall be transferred to the Company, unless Human Resources Department’s approval in writing is given to the Employee authorizing him or her to retain them. A copy of the approval shall be filed in the Employee’s personnel file.
6.11    Fair Competition
Competition laws and regulations are designed to ensure a fair and competitive free market system. Whilst the Company shall compete vigorously in the marketplace, it shall comply with all applicable antitrust and competition laws.
6.12    Government Contracting
In pursuing business with government entities, the standards of conduct and prohibited practices may be specifically regulated. Company representatives engaged in business with government entities are expected to be aware of, and to comply with, laws and regulations that govern such transactions and solicitation of such transactions.
6.13    Competitive Intelligence and Customer / Supplier Information
Competitive information is a valuable tool that allows the Company to understand and manage its markets, products, and services to better meet its customers’ needs. However, Employees are expected to gather and use that information in an ethical manner and in compliance with the law.
Illegal acts such as theft, illegal entry, blackmail, electronic eavesdropping, wiretapping, threats, misrepresentation and other improper methods are prohibited. Employees of competitors or suppliers shall not be asked to reveal proprietary information. YASREF Employees shall likewise never divulge proprietary information about their former employers and shall not be asked to do so.
Similarly, the records YASREF maintains on its customers (or otherwise) shall only be used for Company business purposes. This information shall not be released without proper authorization and then only for legitimate business reasons.
An Employee who knows or suspects that non-public or confidential information belonging to a supplier, customer or competitor has been obtained improperly or by mistake (such as misdirected faxes or bid information), shall immediately inform the originator and not use that information for any purpose.
6.14    Insider Trading
Employees shall not use inside information learned in the course of their employment in order to trade securities or commodities for their own account, nor shall they provide such inside information to others for trading purposes. For purposes of this Code, “inside information” is information about the Company (including not only the Company, but also its owners, suppliers, or customers) that has not reached the general marketplace and is likely to be considered important by potential investors. The term “trade” includes all purchases or sales of securities or commodities in an open market.
Examples of “inside information” include, without limitation:
    Information about the acquisition or loss of a contract;
    Financial forecasts or earnings (for the Company as a whole or for a major subsidiary or division);
    Major management changes;
    A new product, discovery or invention;
    Proposed acquisitions or mergers;
    Purchase or sale of any assets;
    Developments of any proceedings or litigation;
    Developments in labor negotiations;
    Restructurings and reorganizations; and
    Significant damage to or mechanical problems affecting the Company’s assets.
6.15    Espionage and Sabotage
Any Employee, who suspects that any unauthorized person is attempting to obtain sensitive or confidential information, or gain access to a secured location, shall promptly report that suspicion to his or her supervisor.
7.  PROTECTING ASSETS AND RESOURCES
Proper protection of and use of Company assets, including proprietary information, is a fundamental responsibility of each Employee.
7.1 Protection and Use of Company Assets
Company equipment, vehicles, tools, and supplies have been acquired for the purpose of conducting Company business. They may not be used for Employees’ personal benefit, sold, loaned, given away or disposed of without proper authorization. Taking Company property from the Company’s facilities without permission is regarded as theft.
Company credit cards and cash shall never be used for personal use. Inaccurate or incomplete vouchers, time sheets, invoices, benefits claims, and travel and expense reimbursement reports shall never be used to obtain payment from the Company.
An Employee who becomes aware of the theft or misuse of Company assets shall promptly report the matter to his or her supervisor.
7.2 Protection of Information Resources
Company computer and network hardware, software, and telephone or other communication equipment are key components of the Company’s  business. They are intended for Company business use and all information processed, transmitted, or stored within these assets belongs to the Company and can be monitored at any time. Limited occasional and reasonable personal use is permitted. However, all use, business or personal, shall be consistent with the Company’s corporate values and this Code.
Each Employee is responsible for protecting these resources from damage, destruction, viruses, alteration, theft, fraudulent manipulation, unauthorized access, disclosure, or use.
7.3 Electronic Communications Systems
Company internal electronic communications systems are primarily for Company business. Incidental and occasional personal use of the Company’s internet access, e-mail, paging, fax, and telephone systems is permitted, as long as there is no significant added cost to the Company, it does not interfere with an Employee’s work, and is not related to illegal or immoral activities or to any outside business.
The Company reserves the right to access information concerning Employee and contractor Employee use of the Company’s Internet access, e-mail, paging, fax, and telephone systems and to use or disclose that information as it sees fit, including use for disciplinary purposes and disclosure to law enforcement authorities, all to the extent permitted by applicable law.
7.4 Records Management
Failing to comply with Company policy and relevant regulations governing records management can have serious tax and/or legal repercussions.
7.5 Protecting Proprietary and Confidential Company Information
The Company shall protect and leverage its intellectual property, which includes inventions, discoveries, improvements, ideas, computer programs and related documentation, trademarks, patents, copyrights and proprietary information. Likewise, the Company shall protect commercial secrets, proprietary information that is licensed to it or otherwise entrusted to it by third parties.
Examples of proprietary or confidential information include:
    Business, research and new product plans;
    Objectives and strategies;
    Unpublished financial or pricing information;
    Proposed asset acquisitions or dispositions;
    Processes and formulas;
    Salary and benefits data;
    Employee medical information;
    Employee information, salary and benefits record;
    Employee, customer and supplier lists; and
    Licensed technologies and know-how.
Employees who have access to the Company’s or third party proprietary and confidential information are obligated to safeguard it from unauthorized access and:
    Not disclose this information to persons outside the Company or in a manner inconsistent with the terms of any relevant license or confidentiality agreement;
    Not use this information for personal benefit or the benefit of persons outside of the Company; and
    Not share this information with other Employees except on a legitimate “need-to-know” basis.
Any Company information created in the course of our employment belongs to the Company. Employees leaving the Company shall return all proprietary information in their possession. The Employees’ obligation to protect the Company’s proprietary and confidential information continues even after they leave the Company in line with the period specified in Article 83 of the Saudi Labor Laws.
8.  FINANCIAL REPORTING INTEGRITY AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Many Company Employees are involved with financial reports of some kind such as preparing time sheets or expense statements, approving invoices, signing for receipt of purchased materials or preparing inventory reports. While some Employees may not be familiar with accounting procedures, they need to make sure that every business record is accurate, complete, and reliable. This standard also applies to all operating reports or records prepared for internal or external purposes, such as environmental data, product test results, quality control reports and sales projections.
Many of these records are critical to the management of the Company’s business and shall be truthful and accurate. Unrecorded or “off-the-books” funds or assets shall not be kept for any purpose. False, misleading, or incomplete information undermines our ability to make good decisions about resources, personnel, and programs and, in some cases, violates the law.
The Company has established accounting standards and procedures to ensure that assets are protected and properly used and that financial records  and reports are accurate and reliable. Employees share the responsibility for maintaining and complying with required internal controls.
The Company shall keep accurate books and records and maintain a system of internal controls to ensure our records fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets. This is to prevent “slush funds” and “off-the-books” accounts, which some companies have used to make and conceal questionable payments.
9.  EXTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS
Employees must observe the Company’s business communications guidelines for every kind of correspondence including mail, electronic documents, instant messages, websites, social media tools, press releases, advertisements, paper documents, facsimile, voice and voice mail recordings etc. As a minimum guideline, Employees shall ensure adherence to following guiding principles (the list is not exhaustive):

    Communications with Governments: Government Affairs & Public Relations Division is the first point of contact for any communications with the government that involve disputes or appeals related to regulatory matters. It is imperative for Employees to seek proper guidance, and obtain the required approvals from YASREF Government Affairs & Public Relations Division before engaging in above mentioned communications with government officials at any level. Certain departments such as Finance, Human Resources and Security have to communicate with various governmental personnel to comply with routine business requirements and to ensure regulatory compliance. These departments may continue to make such communications  directly with government officials unless such communications involve disputes or appeals as mentioned above.
    Communications with External Media: Employees may be contacted from time to time by international or local news organizations, including industry-specific or financial news media, bloggers, academic researchers, or other research groups looking for comments, background information or interviews. To ensure accuracy, consistency and responsiveness when dealing with the news media while concurrently preserving the Company’s restricted and confidential information, Employees should not, under any circumstances, provide interviews, comments, or in any way discuss the Company or its activities to any external media source. Any contact from third-party media representatives must immediately be referred to the Company’s Government Affairs & Public Relations Division.
    Publications: All publications of whatever nature are required to undergo the Company’s Government Affairs & Public Relations Division’s review and approval prior to release to any audience outside YASREF.
    Communications by Suppliers Involving the Company: All requests for advertising, press releases, or printed matter proposed by suppliers that reference procurement related activities by the Company must first be approved by the Government Affairs & Public Relations Division.
10. COMPLIANCE STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
Company Employees shall work to ensure prompt and consistent action against violations of this Code. However, in some situations it may be difficult to know right from wrong. Since it is difficult to anticipate every situation that may arise, it is important that Employees have guidance as to how to approach a novel question or problem. In challenging or ambiguous situations, Employees shall:
    Make sure they have all the facts. In order to reach the right solutions, decision makers need to be as fully informed as possible;
    Ask: “What specifically am I being asked to do? Does it seem unethical or improper?” Use judgment and common sense; if something seems unethical or improper, it probably is;
    Clarify responsibilities  and roles. In many situations, there is shared responsibility. Solicit the involvement of other responsible Employees and discuss the problem;
    Discuss the problem with your supervisor. This is the principal guidance for all situations. In many cases, supervisors are more knowledgeable about the question and appreciate being brought into the decision-making process;
    In the rare case when it may not be appropriate to discuss an issue with a supervisor, discuss the matter with one of the Company’s Human Resources Department professionals;
    Report ethical violations in confidence and without fear of retaliation. The Company does not permit retaliation of any kind against Employees for good faith reports of ethical violations;
    Employees are required to disclose interests held in other companies and businesses by themselves and their Family Members by completing a Conflict of Interests Disclosure Form (Please refer to Appendix A) at the earliest of: (i) every two years; or (ii) whenever there is a material change in circumstances as specified in the Situations Requiring Written Disclosure and Management Approval Section (6.2). This is to ensure that interests held by Employees and their Family Members do not conflict with the interests of the Company.
    Every Two (2) years, Employees are required to provide confirmation of their compliance with this Code by completing the Ethics Compliance Form (Please refer to Appendix B).



